

Titanic departs White Star Dock on her maiden voyage.

T
Titanic departing Southampton, April 10, 1912. The photo was taken from the Beacon Grange. On
the right, a photographer can be seen preparing to snap his own photo of the event.
o the memory of all who were intimately connected
with the Titanic ... in commemoration of a century
’
s
passing since her life and loss.
For my wife, Jackie, my father Jerry, and my brother Jason. ~ Tad
Fitch
To my friends and family for their support in these endeavors. ~
J. Kent Layton
For my kids, Tom and Tavia, and my wonderful wife Nancy. ~ Bill
Wormstedt
First published 2012; Third Edition 2015
Amberley Publishing
The Hill, Stroud
Gloucestershire, GL5 4EP
www.amberley-books.com
Copyright ©Tad Fitch, J. Kent Layton & Bill Wormstedt 2012, Third Edition
©2015
The right of Tad Fitch, J. Kent Layton & Bill Wormstedt to be identified as the
Authors of this work has been asserted in accordance with the Copyrights,
Designs and Patents Act 1988.
ISBN: 978 1 4456 4701 2 (PRINT)
ISBN: 978 1 4456 1439 7 (e-BOOK)
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprinted or reproduced or
utilised in any form or by any electronic, mechanical or other means, now
known or hereafter invented, including photocopying and recording, or in any
information storage or retrieval system, without the permission in writing
from the Publishers.
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data.
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.
Typeset in 9pt on 10pt Crimson Text
Typesetting and Origination by Amberley Publishing.
Printed in the UK.
CONTENTS
Introduction, by George Behe
Authors’ Note: A Century and Counting
Prologue
1. A Legend Is Born
2. An Auspicious Crossing
3. The Eve of Disaster
4. Rendezvous With Destiny
5. The Losing Battle
6. On ‘A Sea of Glass’
7. In the Wake of a Legend
8. The Eternal Echoes
Plates
Appendix A: Titanic’s Technical Specifications & Some Common
Misconceptions
Appendix B: Southampton to Cherbourg
Appendix C: The Question of Binoculars
Appendix D: What Time Is It?
Appendix E: Taking Evasive Action
Appendix F: The Iceberg Damage
Appendix G: The Duff Gordon Affair
Appendix H: Incidents of Gunfire During the Sinking
Appendix I: The Loss of Deck Crew on the Titanic Over Time
Appendix J: The Music of the Titanic’s Band
Appendix K: Shots in the Dark: Did an Officer Commit Suicide on the
Titanic?
Appendix L: Thomas Andrews’ Fate
Appendix M: Down With the Ship? Captain Smith’s Fate
Appendix N: The Breakup
Appendix O: ‘J. “Brute” Ismay’?
Appendix P: Buried At Sea
Appendix Q: Trapped ‘Like Rats’?
Appendix R: The Californian Affair
Postscript
Endnotes
Acknowledgments / Photo Credits
To purchase other copies of this book,
or for the interactive experience, please visit:
www.atlanticliners.com
Titanic casts off from her Southampton pier.
T
INTRODUCTION
By George Behe
he year 2012 marked the hundredth anniversary of the sinking of the
passenger liner Titanic, and the centenary saw the publication of a host
of books that (with several notable exceptions) were written very quickly
utilizing the usual well-known stories for the sole purpose of cashing in on
public interest in the anniversary. (Indeed, one grows tired of reading the
silly claim that the Olympic and Titanic were secretly switched prior to the
maiden voyage, and the equally silly claim that the steamer Californian was
not within easy sight of the sinking Titanic and that multiple ‘mystery ships’
lay between them.) The present book is decidedly different, and the reader
will become aware of that happy fact before he or she has delved into it for
more than a dozen pages.
The study of history does not consist merely of assembling a collection of
facts for their own sake. Rather, the proper study of history requires two
separate and distinct activities, one of which must take place before the
second can be attempted. The first of these requirements is that a historian
must research his subject very thoroughly and assemble sufficient ‘raw
material’ to enable him to move on to the second activity – which is to utilize
that raw material in telling the complete story of the historical event in
question. In other words, proper historical methodology requires the proper
interpretation of historical data and the putting of raw facts in their proper
historical context in order to get an accurate overview of the ‘big picture.’
One need only look at the detailed footnotes and list of sources contained in
the present book to recognize the depth of research that its three co-authors
accomplished prior to the day when they began to write down the fruits of
that research in a form that made sense of the information in question. Kent
Layton, Tad Fitch and Bill Wormstedt have gone out of their way to fill their
book with accurate historical information and rare, little-known survivor
statements that have been arranged in such a way as to let the story of the
Titanic’s maiden voyage unfold in a logical chronological manner.
Readers of this book will learn about the background of the White Star
Line and the reason behind the construction of the Titanic and her older sister
Olympic. The reader will ‘watch’ as the Titanic is being built at the Harland
and Wolff shipyard in Belfast and as she is taken out for her trial voyage
prior to her delivery to the White Star Line. The reader will learn what it
was like for passengers to take the boat train to Southampton and experience
the hustle and bustle on the quayside as they prepared to board the great
vessel for her first voyage to America. The subsequent four days of the
maiden voyage are described in exquisite detail, and the reader will get to
know many passengers and crewmen who – for all practical purposes – have
previously been regarded as just ‘anonymous names’ that appeared on the
ship’s yellowing passenger and crew lists. The Titanic’s collision with the
iceberg and the subsequent partial-evacuation of the great vessel are
described with meticulous accuracy and vivid realism, and the heart-shaking
events that took place during the minutes, hours and days that followed the
sinking of the big passenger liner are presented with sensitivity and with an
acute awareness of the fact that the Titanic disaster was a human tragedy that
affected not only her passengers and crewmen, but devastated the lives of the
thousands of family members and friends whose lives were intimately
intertwined with those of the loved ones who sailed on the ill-fated maiden
voyage of the largest ship in the world.
An added bonus to the present work is a fine collection of appendices,
each of which addresses a specific historical topic that has puzzled and
mystified Titanic researchers ever since the ship went down. The authors
have carefully and dispassionately examined the existing evidence pertaining
to each individual topic and have then offered their objective opinion
regarding possible answers to the mysteries in question. The reader will now
be able to evaluate the very real possibility that a Titanic officer shot a
couple of passengers before taking his own life with his own revolver during
the final stages of the sinking; the reader can impartially investigate the
question of whether or not the Titanic’s band really played the hymn,
‘Nearer, My God, to Thee’ before they and their instruments were
swallowed by the ever-rising sea; the reader can examine evidence
pertaining to the way in which the Titanic’s Captain Edward Smith and her
designer Thomas Andrews met their individual fates during the ship’s final
moments; the reader will also be able to read the cold, hard facts about the
infamous ‘Californian affair’ and dismiss the revisionist claim that the latter
vessel lay far beyond visual range of the sinking Titanic.
The three co-authors of this book have been very judicious in selecting
the most accurate and most descriptive historical source material with which
to tell the story of the Titanic, and their acuity has resulted in one of the best
books about the Titanic disaster that I have ever read. I was honored when
Kent Layton, Tad Fitch and Bill Wormstedt asked me to write the foreword to
this marvelous book, and I sincerely hope that the reader will be as
impressed with their work as I am.
George Behe
Mount Clemens, Michigan
This view shows Second Class passengers strolling on Titanic’s port Boat Deck on Thursday, April
11, 1912.
T
AUTHORS’ NOTE
A CENTURY AND COUNTING
he Titanic has passed from living memory … even so, it seems
impossible to believe that more than a century has elapsed since that
great liner set forth on her maiden voyage, filled with hopes, and since her
loss shocked the world less than a week later. The story of that five-day
voyage into destiny has haunted the public consciousness ever since the
terrible news broke on the morning of Monday, April 15, 1912. It has
remained a never-changing ‘moment’ in time that seems as relevant and
fascinating today as it did back then, in spite of the earthshaking and turbulent
century which separates us from the sinking.
In the last century, dozens of books have been written about the infamous
events of the Titanic’s life and loss. Thus, many – when hesitantly reaching
for this volume and turning to the first pages – will inevitably pose the
question: ‘Why another…? Hasn’t everything about the Titanic been told
already?’ The answer to that question is a resolute: ‘No.’
The truth is that the picture of history is never complete, especially once
events pass from living memory. With a subject as popular, and often so hotly
debated, as the story of the Titanic, the importance of telling historic events
well, and as they really happened, is a great challenge. Why?
The challenges begin with the survivors – our only link to the events of
that night. Of all those who were aboard, only one third managed to reach
New York safely; two thirds were lost. That tremendous death toll means that
we have enormous gaps in the historical record of what happened as the
great ship steamed into an ice field and sank. That incomplete picture is all
we have to reconstruct a chain of events. Additionally, there are now no
living survivors to interview for fresh thoughts and input.
Already it begins to look like an uphill battle, but it gets worse. As one
studies the existing survivor accounts, it becomes clear that not all the pieces
of the puzzle fit together cleanly. Sometimes, survivors forgot to mention
everything they did … Occasionally, when they gave more than one account
of their experiences, the different accounts do not agree with each other;
among these are the various recollections of some of the best-known
survivors, including Archibald Gracie, Lawrence Beesley and Jack Thayer.
At times, they simply add a detail in one account that they omit in another, but
sometimes they changed the order of what they did during the sinking,
periodically even contradicting themselves. At other times, there are
significant contradictions between different survivors on what order events
happened in. The problems become so thorny that only a majority of the
evidence can be used to determine the most likely chain of events.
At other times, the problem lies with those who have tried to re-tell the
story. The earliest of these were newspaper reporters, swarming over the
lower Manhattan wharves, jockeying to get stories from exhausted and
grieving survivors. Notes were often taken in shorthand or in some other
condensed manner, and then filled back in before going to press. Stories
sometimes got jumbled; names were misspelled or recorded wholly
incorrectly; and at times, reporters felt that the accounts needed ‘tarting up’
in order to make them more marketable to the public.
At the formal inquiries, the situation was more controlled and carefully
recorded; even so, confusion arose, sometimes even from those who were
conducting the investigations. Reading the transcripts, it is clear that there
were times when investigators did not understand testimony, the working
technicalities of ocean liners, and even basic nautical terminology. Even the
accent or style of expression that a witness used was misunderstood. Simple
mistakes during the proceedings were sometimes compounded and affected
the investigators’ final judgments on matters.
In the years since, the whole matter has come into the purview of
enthusiasts, researchers and authors. Because the subject of the Titanic
always evokes strong feelings, and certain events have long been thought
either open to interpretation or resoundingly unsolvable, differences of
opinion and even bitter arguments have erupted time and again.
Commendably, some researchers and authors follow the available evidence
like a trail of bread-crumbs, letting facts guide them to conclusions in the
best ‘Sherlock Holmes-ian’ style. Others seem to have made up their minds
that things had to have happened a certain way; then they have gone to find
evidence to support their preconceived conclusions.
In a market which has become increasingly glutted with all sorts of books
on the subject, attempts have been made by some to carve out a niche where
they can specialize in a certain area of the Titanic’s history. This has at times
produced astounding works. For other authors, the niche has become finding
conspiracy theories surrounding the liner: that the steel used to build the ship
was too weak … that the shipyard and perhaps personnel from White Star
colluded to build and equip the liners to a knowingly substandard level …
that the Olympic and Titanic were switched in order to accomplish some sort
of insurance scam … the list of such conspiracy theories goes on and on.
Another issue is the recent micro-dissection of Titanic information
spread across dozens of books, research papers in quarterly journals, and
online articles. While helpful in certain areas – much like zooming into a
scene with a telephoto lens camera to pick out a certain detail – some threedimensional perception can and has been lost. Additionally, not everyone
within the Titanic community or with an interest in her story has access to all
this material. Even if they do, it can be very difficult for them to put it all
back together again properly so that the larger picture emerges with accuracy.
In this book, we have attempted to reconstruct the entire story of the ship
in a scholarly manner, documenting everything as we worked, and ending up
with about 2,600 endnotes – most of them to cite original source material. We
have included as much information as was available to us – including
previously unpublished or rare accounts – as well as all of the research done
on even the smallest details. Then we have taken all of this aggregate
evidence to create a large-scale re-telling of the Titanic’s history in a running
narrative that we hope is as engaging as it is educational.
Where multiple retellings of the story from a single survivor are
available, they have been compared with each other and with the testimony
of other survivors that touch on similar, nearby, or corresponding events.
Where differences arose among all available evidence, credence was given
to the testimony that best fit the overall larger picture that was compiled from
numerous lines of parallel evidence. Forensic research from the wreck itself
was added to this, as well as any other piece of information which might
have a bearing on the matter.
One of the things that we have seen the need for is to draw upon a wide
range of expertise in the field when embarking upon a project of this
magnitude. Our expertise ranges from a broad knowledge of the Titanic’s
technical construction through to individual stories. In the course of our
work, however, we have also tapped the experience of a large number of
other Titanic and Olympic-class liner researchers, and these other
individuals have been very important in providing perspective and in playing
‘devil’s advocate’ with our findings.
Overall we are stunned by the clarity that an impartial investigation of
original sources can provide; like the interlocking pieces of a jigsaw puzzle,
we have managed to piece much of the story back together. In a number of
cases, the way two or more completely different accounts came together was
absolutely stunning. At other times, seemingly contradictory accounts offered
a small yet vital clue which helped us to understand what most likely
happened.
Despite all of the progress we’ve made, we are also careful to note that
certain details of events that night may never be established with finality. Our
desire is, not to try to ‘one-up’ other researchers, but to present the most
accurate picture of those events that can be compiled with the evidence that
is now available to us. Since the first edition of this volume went to press,
we have found a few errors, which we have put to right in this volume. If
future evidence comes to light that helps us to understand that some of our
findings and conclusions need to be revised in light of new information, we
will happily make these findings available to other researchers and the
public alike, initially through an accompanying web site.
The reader will no doubt notice that in several chapters – particularly the
chapters focusing on the disaster – we have included subheadings to indicate
that the events in that section happened during the listed range of times. These
have been placed as ‘guide-posts’ to help readers stay oriented as they go
through the lengthy narrative. However, they should be used merely as guideposts, and a small range for variance should be allowed for.
We hope that you enjoy reading this volume, and that it makes the events
which unfolded on that cold, dark night a century ago come back to life for
you. We hope that this helps to bring into sharper focus the picture of what
happened to what was then the world’s greatest ship, and what it was like for
the passengers and crewmembers who sailed aboard her … perhaps most
importantly, we hope that this work will help to preserve the memory of the
Titanic and those who participated in those events for generations to come.
Bon voyage.
J. Kent Layton, Tad Fitch, and Bill Wormstedt
T
PROLOGUE
he night of Sunday, April 14, 1912 was rapidly coming to a conclusion.
Aboard the Cunard steamship Carpathia, it had been a rather ordinary
day. In the ship’s Marconi Shack, her sole wireless operator, 21-year-old
Harold Thomas Cottam, was just winding down for bed. He had already
removed his jacket, and was listening through his headset, awaiting a
response from another liner, the Parisian.
Cottam had worked for the Marconi Company for about three years.
Nearly half of that time had been spent in their shore-based stations. Then he
had been assigned to the White Star liner Medic, on the Australian run. After
two round-trip voyages on that vessel, Cottam had transferred to the
Carpathia.
The Carpathia was an intermediate-sized liner of some 13,500 gross
registered tons, and with a maximum speed of about fourteen knots. The little
Cunarder was engaged on the Mediterranean run, and had just departed New
York bound for Gibraltar. Cottam was aware that the ship was not, perhaps,
the most prestigious; her wireless set was not the most up-to-date, being an
older-style 1 1/2-kw design with a range of about two hundred and fifty
miles. But it was a good job, which paid £4 10s per month
1 … the hours
were flexible … there was the excitement of travel … and it was stable
employment.
Throughout the day, Cottam had received a number of wireless
transmissions warning of ice. These had come in from the Caronia, the
Californian, the Baltic and the Mesaba. He had dutifully sent these messages
up to the Bridge. At about 10:00 p.m. New York Time, Cottam was awaiting
confirmation of a previous transmission to the Parisian. He was almost
ready to turn in.
While he waited, Cottam listened to the nightly news bulletins being
transmitted from ashore, wrote down a few pieces of correspondence and
took them up to the Bridge. When he returned to the Marconi Room, he put
the headphones back on. Almost on a whim, he called up the new White Star
liner Titanic, which was on her maiden voyage to New York. Cottam had
been in touch with the Titanic earlier in the day … what a job she must have
been! Now, however, he thought to ask Titanic’s wireless operators if they
were aware of the fact that there were a good many messages coming through
for them from ashore.
2
The response, when it came through at 10:35 p.m. New York Time, was
stunning: ‘Come at once. We have struck a berg. It’s a CQD OM [old man].
Position 41° 46’ N, 50° 14’ W.’3
Cottam was stunned. A CQD meant that the Titanic – the largest and
newest ship in the world – was in grave distress. Was it even possible? He
replied, asking if he should inform his Captain. The response from the
Titanic was a definite ‘yes’! At this, Cottam bolted for the Bridge. There he
found First Officer Dean standing an icy cold watch. He quickly conveyed
the information to Dean, and then he hurried down toward the Captain’s
cabin, with Dean following hard on his heels.
Carpathia’s Captain, Arthur H. Rostron, had already turned in for the
night and was in bed. He had not yet fallen asleep when the two men arrived
with the shocking news. Rostron remembered that the …
… Marconi Operator came … right up to me and … told me he had
just received an urgent distress signal from the ‘Titanic’ that she
required immediate assistance; that she had struck ice, and giving me
her position.
4
Rostron asked Cottam if he was sure about the whole thing … twice.
5
 Cottam
replied in the affirmative.
Carpathia’s Second Officer, James Bisset, had already turned in for the
night. He was just dozing off to sleep when he heard Captain Rostron’s
response to the news:
Suddenly I heard the Captain’s voice, singing out orders up to the
bridge. ‘Stop her. Send for the Chief Engineer. Send for the Chief
Officer. Call all the Officers. Call all hands on deck and get ready to
swing out the boats.’
This last order, in particular, motivated Bisset to full alertness. He jumped
out of bed, quickly donned his clothes, overcoat and boots, and headed up to
the Bridge to find out what was going on. He found First Officer Dean, the
Officer of the Watch, had returned there.
‘The Titanic has struck a berg and has sent out the distress signal,’ Dean
informed Bisset in a terse and highly excited voice.
By that time, Captain Rostron was in the Chart Room, working out the
Titanic’s position, comparing it with his own, and figuring out what course
he would need to take to intercept the stricken liner. Once he had made his
calculations, he returned to the Bridge and said to the helmsman: ‘North 52
West! Full ahead!’
‘Aye aye, sir, North 52 West!’ came the automatic response.
By that point, the ship’s officers and department heads – such as the Chief
Purser, the Chief Steward, the English doctor – had begun to congregate on
the Bridge, and Rostron moved them inside, out of the cold. Once inside, he
gave them the astounding explanation in a clear and steady tone of voice:
‘The Titanic has struck a berg and is in distress fifty-eight miles from here on
the bearing N. 52 W. We will make our utmost speed in going to her rescue.
Call out an extra watch in the engineroom and raise every ounce of steam
possible. We may reach her in four hours. We may have to pick up 2,000 or
more people.’6
The Carpathia in New York, April 19, 1912.
Carpathia’s Marconi Operator, Harold Thomas Cottam.
Then Rostron began to give an incredibly detailed set of orders for
coping with the situation. The English doctor, and his assistants, would
remain in the First Class Dining Room; the Italian doctor and his assistants
were assigned to the Second Class Dining Room; the Hungarian doctor and
his assistants would take the Third Class Dining Room. Each doctor was to
have ‘supplies of restoratives, stimulants, and everything to hand for
immediate needs of probable wounded or sick.’ The Purser, with his
assistant and the Chief Steward, would ‘receive the passengers, etc., at
different gangways, controlling our own stewards in assisting Titanic
passengers to the dining rooms, etc.’ They were also ordered to ‘get
Christian and surnames of all survivors as soon as possible to send by
wireless.’ Meanwhile, the Inspector, Steerage stewards, and Master-at-arms
were to control Carpathia’s own Third Class passengers and keep them out
of their Dining Room and ‘out of the way and off the deck to prevent
confusion.’
To the Chief Steward, Rostron ordered all hands to be called out, and
that a steady supply of coffee should be brewed and ready to serve to all
crew members to keep them alert. Coffee, tea, soup and everything of that
nature would be supplied to each saloon … blankets were to be brought to
the saloons, the gangways, and some were to be readied for the boats.
All of the rescued were to be cared for and their immediate wants
attended. Rostron and ‘all officials’ were to give up their cabins, while the
public rooms would also be utilized to accommodate the survivors. All spare
Third Class berths were to be utilized for Titanic’s passengers … all of
Carpathia’s Steerage passengers were to be grouped together. Stewards
would be placed in each alleyway to reassure the Cunard vessel’s own
passengers, should they inquire about the noise in getting the lifeboats out or
the high-speed working of the engines. Rostron charged all with ‘the
necessity for order, discipline and quietness and to avoid all confusion.’
To the Chief and First Officers, he ordered that all the hands were to be
called, some coffee gotten into them, and then that they should prepare and
swing out all the lifeboats. All the gangway doors were to be opened.
Electric sprays, or lights, were to be placed in each gangway and over the
sides of the ship. A block with line rove hooked was to be rigged in each
gangway … also a chair sling at each gangway, for getting up sick or
wounded, as well as Boatswain’s chairs, pilot ladders and canvas ash bags,
with the canvas ash bags for children.
Rostron also ordered: ‘Cargo falls with both ends clear; bowlines in the
ends, and bights secured along [the] ship’s sides, for boat ropes or to help the
people up.’ Heaving lines should be distributed along the ship’s side, and
gaskets were to be handy near the gangways for lashing people in chairs, and
the like. The forward derricks were to be topped and rigged, with steam on
the winches. Also, he gave different officers orders to maintain different
stations and to be ready for ‘certain eventualities.’ Lastly, beginning at 2:45
a.m., Rostron would fire company rockets every fifteen minutes to help
reassure those on the Titanic that they were coming.
7
When Rostron had finished with this steady stream of orders, Bisset
recalled that not one of the formerly-groggy men in the room were sleepy.
They all turned out double-quick to carry out the Captain’s instructions.
8
As the Carpathia began to charge northwest toward the distress position
of the Titanic, Rostron could do little but pace the decks of his Bridge,
maintaining a careful watch for icebergs and praying that he would arrive in
time to render assistance to those aboard the stricken White Star liner.
The road which paved the way to the Carpathia’s mad dash to the
Titanic in the dark of night was a long one, one which had begun years
before. She was to have been a triumph for her owners, her builders, and for
the shipbuilding industry as a whole. Instead, something had gone dreadfully
wrong. … This is the story of her life and loss. …
The Olympic (background) and Titanic (foreground) meet at the Harland & Wolff shipyard in October
of 1911. Olympic has returned for repairs following the Hawke collision. A single funnel, No 2,
stands in place on the Titanic. Work can clearly be seen progressing on the configuration of
Titanic’s B Deck windows, but her fitting out is far from complete.

I
CHAPTER 1
A LEGEND IS BORN
n the first decade of the twentieth century, competition on the North Atlantic
was at a near-frenzy. The second half of the nineteenth century had seen
tremendous advances in technology in what later became known as the
Industrial Revolution. This had allowed for greater worldwide
communication, the emergence of a global economy and international trade,
and also increased opportunities for world travel. There was a need for
businessmen on both sides of the Atlantic to travel back and forth in caring for
various responsibilities. There were also a large number of people who took
passage across the ocean for leisure. For Americans with ample time and
funds, there was little more exciting, more cultured, than a season abroad. For
many Europeans, there was the attraction of great cities like New York or
Chicago, as well as the wide open scenery of the American West and the Gold
Coast. At the same time, a mass migration was in progress, with hundreds of
thousands of people immigrating to the Americas to start a new life in the
hopes of increased prosperity.
Any number of steamship lines were busily engaged in transporting these
individuals to and fro across the Atlantic. The liners – so termed because they
steamed upon fixed routes, or lines – were a matter of company, and national,
pride. Britain had long dominated the waves not only militarily, but also with
its merchant fleet. During the second half of the nineteenth century, Britain
almost exclusively had the world’s largest, fastest and most prestigious ships
at hand between their two premier steamship lines, Cunard and White Star.
Beginning in 1897, however, a pair of German steamship companies
unexpectedly trounced their British competitors by unleashing a stream of
super-large, super-luxurious, and super-fast liners onto the North Atlantic
shipping lanes. In this endeavor, they were backed by the Emperor of
Germany, Kaiser Wilhelm II. Young, energetic and dubiously ambitious, he
foresaw in his country a nation that could – and would, if he had anything to
do with it – surpass Britain in every conceivable way. Since ocean liners
were such a powerful symbol, it was determined that the German liners had to
outdo the British liners in every regard. Their ships quickly gained prestige on
the Atlantic. The ability to boast of having taken passage on the ‘world’s
largest’ or ‘world’s fastest’ liner was unbelievably attractive to prospective
passengers, and so the German ships enjoyed great success.
The British press and public veritably howled over ‘foreign’ liners having
bettered their own. Personnel at the British White Star Line were not
particularly happy with this development, either. The responsibility of their
plan to respond to this development settled squarely upon the shoulders of the
company’s founder, Thomas Henry Ismay.
The White Star Line had a fascinating history. The company name ‘White
Star’ was first used by a shipping line engaged in the Australian run, which
had its origins in the early 1850s. Originally, they ran clipper ships, but
eventually began to introduce steam power to their fleet. Unfortunately, the
company became quagmired in financial distress and went bankrupt. The
company’s assets, house flag and goodwill were purchased by Thomas Ismay
and registered under the formal title of the Oceanic Steam Navigation
Company, with a capital of £400,000, in 1869. Shortly thereafter, Ismay began
to engage in direct competition on the Atlantic with the Cunard Line. Although
Cunard was nearly thirty years White Star’s senior in the Atlantic trade, the
newer company had quickly gained ground on the established one. By the end
of the century the two companies shared the pride of the British Empire’s
mercantile industry.
The first major ship to appear in White Star’s fleet after the German threat
emerged in earnest was the Oceanic of 1899. She was a truly remarkable
vessel, but on her own she was not enough to regain British supremacy on the
Atlantic. Then, in November of 1899, Thomas Ismay died at the age of 62.
After his death, the company came under the watchful eye of his son, Joseph
Bruce Ismay. Frequently referred to as Bruce, the younger Ismay would lead
the White Star Line in its bid to recapture British supremacy on the waves –
and to keep a wary eye on developments from the Cunard Line, as well. By
the time Thomas Ismay had died, plans to proceed with another great liner
were already under way, but more would be needed ... much more.
In 1899 and 1900, Cunard put two new intermediate-class ships into
service, the Ivernia and the Saxonia. Granted, a pair of liners was better than
a single ship, such as the Oceanic, but they, too, were not a suitable response
to the German threat. Both White Star and Cunard began to hatch bold plans
for a more proper return salvo to their Teutonic neighbors across the North
Sea.
First up came White Star’s Celtic, which entered service in July of 1901.
At 20,904 tons, she was the largest vessel in the world, and the last vision of
Thomas Ismay. Even more exciting was that she was but the first of a quartet
of great liners that White Star would put into service, which would become
known as the ‘Big Four’. Each of these ships – the 21,035-ton Cedric of
1903, the 23,884-ton Baltic of 1904, and the 24,541-ton Adriatic of 1907 –
were the largest in the world when they entered service. All of them were
comfortable and noteworthy for their great size, and they were successful, but
they were not exactly swift vessels; even the fastest of them only managed
seventeen knots.
Thomas Henry Ismay.
The Oceanic of 1870.
Joseph Bruce Ismay.
White Star’s Adriatic of 1907, seen here in New York Harbor.
Far larger than the Adriatic, the Cunard liner Lusitania entered service in September of 1907. She
is seen here in Liverpool on April 23, 1908.
The luxury and spaciousness of the new Cunarders is amply demonstrated in this 1907 photo of
the Lusitania’s First Class Dining Saloon.
Meanwhile, in 1902, the White Star Line had been bought out by
American financier J. P. Morgan and rolled into his international steamship
combine, the International Mercantile Marine. Shortly thereafter, Bruce Ismay
became President of the IMM, taking the helm of a very large company with
White Star clearly in the forefront in terms of prestige.
As the new century got under way, Cunard had not been sitting still, either.
In 1901, they had an English shipbuilding firm draw up plans for a proposed
new vessel of some 700 feet in length, and with a remarkable speed of 24
knots. However, with a rate war under way among the great steamship
companies, and their own coffers far from full, Cunard needed financial
assistance in order to come up with a proper response to the German threat
and, in the eventuality, White Star’s ‘Big Four’. Eventually, they were able to
secure a loan and additional financial assistance from the British Government
to build a pair of liners the likes of which the world had never seen. They
would become the world’s first true superliners, and their names would
become legendary: they were named Lusitania and Mauretania.
The Lusitania was built on the River Clyde in Scotland by John Brown &
Company. Her keel was laid on August 17, 1904, and she was launched on
June 7, 1906. The Mauretania was built on the River Tyne in England by
Swan, Hunter & Wigham Richardson. She was laid down on August 18, 1904,
and launched on September 20, 1906. The two ships were built from a single
concept, but the two shipyards were given leeway in a number of details
which in the end gave each of the liners their own personal identity. Both
ships were remarkable in a number of ways. When they entered service, they
were simultaneously the longest, the tallest, and the largest moving objects
ever built. The Lusitania was some 787 feet in overall length, while the
Mauretania was three feet longer; at the same time, they were the first vessels
to top 30,000 gross registered tons, again with the Mauretania having the
slight advantage in enclosed volume. Their unprecedented size gave more
space over for the use of their passengers, and thus they were every bit as
luxurious as – and in many ways far more luxurious than – any other ships in
service.
Whereas all previous Atlantic liners had been content to use one or two –
and in some rare instances three – propellers to drive them through the sea,
the two new Cunarders sported a four-screw setup which would be copied on
many successive liners. Yet even with all the previously noted distinctions,
the Lusitania and Mauretania had one more – and perhaps their most stunning
– feature, which set them apart from everything else on the sea: their
powerplants. Instead of reciprocating engines, each of the new liners boasted
no less then six turbine engines, four for ahead thrust, each geared to its own
propeller, and another pair for use in being driven astern. These turbines gave
a nominal 66,000 horsepower to each ship, with the capacity for even more
under ideal circumstances. Dumping that much raw energy into the water
through the screws, and having hulls built with fine lines to cut cleanly through
the water, the pair was bound to set world records for speed – and this they
did with relish.
Lusitania’s slightly larger, marginally faster sister Mauretania entered service in November 1907.
When the Lusitania entered service in early September of 1907, it was
clear she was a ship for a new era, a bold step forward in liner design. The
Lusitania returned the world records for speed to British hands for the first
time in a decade. The Mauretania entered service before the year was out,
and not only did she take the records for size and length, but she also engaged
her sister in a friendly game of one-upmanship, with the two ships taking the
speed prize from each other over and over again. Even in this regard,
however, the Mauretania had a narrow but clear margin over her older sister;
after the summer of 1909, and despite repeated attempts, the Lusitania could
not best her sister’s average speed for an entire voyage.
All of these little details about which ship was faster, larger, or better
were really for the true enthusiasts, however. The most important detail was
that the pair of new Cunarders was eminently successful. With bragging rights
in every conceivable category, they were tremendously popular and proved to
be fantastic sources of revenue. They instantly eclipsed every other ship on
the Atlantic, and any other crack shipping line wishing to stay competitive
was going to have to match, or preferably better, them.
1
No one knew this better than Bruce Ismay. A long-lived legend has sprung
up that Ismay dreamed up his next move at a dinner party at the home of Lord
Pirrie, the man who was then at the helm of the Belfast, Ireland, shipbuilding
firm of Harland & Wolff. As the story goes, Ismay and his wife dined at the
Pirries’ home one evening during the summer of 1907; after dinner, over
cigars and brandies, Ismay and Pirrie discussed the Lusitania and
Mauretania, and came up with a plan to best Cunard in the great transAtlantic game.
In truth, the legend is utterly impossible as it is so often retold. For one
thing, many details about the new Cunarders had been available for years
before 1907. The provisions of the 1902 loans from Parliament to fund their
construction were a matter of public record, and included therein were many
of the pertinent particulars about the ambitious project. Many other details had
also become progressively clear to those ‘in the know’, or could have been
easily surmised by shipping men who knew what sort of specifications the
new vessels were being built to. There were also numerous press reports
which gave some of the new liners’ specifications. Finally, Harland & Wolff
was allied, to some extent, with the shipbuilding firm constructing the
Lusitania, John Brown & Company, and thus it is possible that Harland &
Wolff personnel were able to acquire additional details on the vessels. In
short, it is the height of absurdity to believe that Ismay would have waited
until the summer of 1907 – mere weeks before the new liners’ maiden
voyages – to come up with a plan to counter the Cunarders’ corporate threat.
J. P. Morgan and Lord Pirrie at the Harland & Wolff shipyard on October 20, 1910, just prior to
the Olympic’s launch.
Construction on the new slips and ‘Great Gantry’ had begun well before the Olympic and Titanic
were laid down. Clearly, the dream for the two new superships was not conceived in the summer of
1907.
Finally, and most importantly, on April 30, 1907 – some months before the
dinner allegedly took place at Pirrie’s home – White Star had gone ahead with
a formal request to Harland & Wolff to plan their next move. They had asked
the shipbuilders to design a pair of new liners that would counter the threat
posed by the Lusitania and Mauretania.
In response, Harland & Wolff had begun work on two new slipways
specifically for White Star’s new ships, as well as a graving dock large
enough to accommodate them – all long before the summer of 1907.2 This
meant that the dream to build the greatest ocean liners the world had ever seen
was conceived earlier than is so often supposed; the tale as it is so often told
is nothing more than romanticized fiction.
3
Exactly how the plan to counter the soon-to-debut Lusitania and
Mauretania evolved thus remains a mystery, yet proceed it did. White Star
had long since eschewed the concept of building speed-competitors in favor
of building comfortable, spacious, luxurious liners. So there would be no
need to follow Cunard’s lead and build ships with such ground-breaking
powerplants. On the other hand it was also clear that with the Cunarders
coming in at roughly twenty-five knots, ships that had a maximum speed of
only seventeen knots – like the ‘Big Four’ – were not going to be enough. It
was also clear that a single-ship response simply wouldn’t do; White Star
opted to build two new liners, and they left the option open to build a third
ship of the same class at a later date, if the first two were deemed successful.
However the concept for the next two White Star liners had its beginnings,
it is clear that Ismay and Pirrie would have consulted closely on the matter.
As Chairman of Harland & Wolff, Pirrie was very much accustomed to
working with Ismay. Starting with White Star’s first Atlantic liner, the
Oceanic of 1871, Harland & Wolff had built all of White Star’s new tonnage.
Indeed, Thomas Ismay’s financial backing to break into the Atlantic trade had
come from a Liverpool businessman, Gustav Schwabe, whose nephew Gustav
Wolff was a partner in the Belfast shipbuilding firm. Schwabe had arranged
the deal on the proviso that Ismay ordered White Star’s ships from his
nephew’s yard. By 1907, the arrangement had worked well for nearly forty
years, and during that entire period, there had not been a single day that
Harland & Wolff had not been engaged in building at least one White Star
vessel.
While the collaborative team working on the initial concept was thus not
by any means unique, the ships that they were planning to build were going to
be unprecedented on a grand scale. Between 1906 and 1908, Harland & Wolff
set about modernizing their yards to deal with the upcoming construction
project. Three major slipways were demolished and replaced by two new
ones, which were then covered by a gantry which housed electric cranes and
which would greatly facilitate the work to be undertaken. Work on a new
graving dock to accommodate the liners had begun even earlier, in 1904.
General arrangement plans of the Titanic.
This photograph, taken in early May of 1909, shows work to plate the forward end of Olympic’s
double bottom. Titanic’s double bottom is clearly seen on the other slipway.
Titanic’s stern frame and some of her after frames stand in place in this view.
The two new ships would be built nearly simultaneously on the new sideby-side slips. The first to be laid down, on Wednesday, December 16, 1908,
was Harland & Wolff Yard No. 400. She would be named Olympic. The
second ship laid down, on Wednesday, March 31, 1909, was Harland & Wolff
Yard No. 401. This vessel was named Titanic.
4 When all was said and done,
the two sisters would both be a breathtaking 882 feet 9 inches in overall
length, nearly one hundred feet longer than the Lusitania and Mauretania,
while they would be some 92 feet 6 inches in maximum breadth. They would,
like the Cunarder speed-queens, bear four proud funnels, but at a projected
45,000 tons, they were nearly half again as large in enclosed volume. This
gave a tremendous amount of space over to the ships’ passengers, particularly
in First Class, where there would be amenities, public rooms, and staterooms
like there had never been before. They would also sport a competitive service
speed projected at 21 knots – not quite as fast as the Cunarders, but certainly
much faster than any of the ‘Big Four’, and also faster than most of the other
ships on the Atlantic at the time.
5
During 1909 and 1910, the hulls of the Olympic and Titanic began to take
shape on the ways in Belfast, and it quickly became clear that they would be
truly astonishing vessels. Although the Great Gantry towered over almost
everything else in Belfast, by the time their twin hulls had been completed,
they all but filled the monstrous enclosures. Work continued at a tremendous
pace, with a peak of about 15,000 workers employed while the two ships
were being constructed side by side. The yard was a hive of activity, with
workers crawling over the hulls of the vessels like Lilliputians crawling
around the giant form of Gulliver.
Work in the yard continued at full speed six days out of the week. Yard
managers were expected to be at their stations before 6:00 a.m., so that work
could begin smoothly under their watchful eyes. Many workers in the shipyard
had joined as premium apprentices and were thus guaranteed a day’s
employment when they arrived at the yard’s gates. The remainder of the
workforce, however, had to go through the morning ritual of the mass hiring,
and thus might or might not end up obtaining work.
6 For those who gained
employment, they were in for a long day. The shift continued until 5:30 p.m.,
with only a half-hour lunch break. On Saturdays, the shift was short, lasting
just through the morning. Workers only had Saturday afternoons and Sunday
off.
The work itself was physically demanding, and conditions were often
dangerous. Heavy loads of material, not to mention the enormous hydraulic
riveting machines, were often moving about from cranes overhead while
workers toiled on scaffolding around the ultra-tall hulls of the ships being
formed below. Materials could be dropped, people could – and sometimes
did – fall from scaffolds. The work was also incredibly loud. Rivet gangs and
the hydraulic riveting machines pounded rivet after rivet into the frames and
hull plates, and steam-powered pieces of hoisting machinery hissed and
whined as they moved heavy loads of material through the yard. Men shouted
information to each other through the clamor. Ear protection was quite
literally unheard of, and men were said to have come out of their day’s work
either deaf or nearly so. Even if their hearing began to return during the
evening, the constant, day-after-day exposure to such incredible levels of
noise would have left many with permanent hearing damage. If all of these
hazards sound offensive to modern sensibilities of workplace safety – and
rightly so – it must be remembered that those were very different times. Jobs
at Harland & Wolff were considered highly desirable, and the company was
considered by and large quite a fair employer. There were always plenty of
workmen hoping to find employment with the prestigious firm.
Harland & Wolff did not provide housing facilities for their employees,
but the workers did tend to choose housing in certain areas of the city.
Newtownards Road in East Belfast was one such area, and it was within easy
walking distance from the shipyard. There were also workers who lived on
the west side, in County Antrim. To a large extent workers were segregated
according to religion. For the most part, Catholics lived on the west side in
County Antrim, with most Protestants residing on the east side in County
Down. Although it was not a rule and there were areas where members of the
two religions lived in the same areas, this was certainly a portent of more
unpleasant chapters in Belfast’s history that would follow a few decades after
the Titanic’s construction.
7
Despite low wages, dangerous working conditions, long shift schedules,
and physically demanding labor, it was clear that the workers at Harland &
Wolff viewed the Olympic and Titanic as more than just the means to another
paycheck. Most of these individuals took great pride in the quality of their
work, and in the vessels they built.
This photo shows the end of a day’s shift at Harland & Wolff. Hundreds of workers walk down
Queen’s Road. The bow of the tender Nomadic can be seen at the extreme left.
Thomas Andrews.
Alexander Carlisle.
While up to 15,000 of these laborers moved throughout the various
departments of the shipyard during the construction of the Olympic and
Titanic, there were several key figures who were guiding the workforce in
their endeavors. Foremost among these was, naturally, William James Pirrie.
Pirrie was born in May of 1847 in Quebec, Canada. He joined Harland &
Wolff in 1862 as an Apprentice Draughtsman, and worked his way up through
the ranks until he eventually became a partner in the company in 1874. After
Sir Edward Harland died in 1896, and Gustav Wolff retired in 1906, Pirrie
was left as the Controlling Chairman of Harland & Wolff. He was also quite
active in local politics, and served as Lord Mayor of Belfast (Liberal Party)
between 1896 and 1898. From that point forward, he bore the title of Lord
Pirrie, and throughout the remainder of his life, he would hold a number of
other honorary titles, as well.
8 Pirrie was an excellent businessman, and once
he became Chairman of the shipyard, he continued the close relationship
established so many years earlier between his company and the White Star
Line. Since the concept for the Olympic and Titanic was most likely first
dreamed up between Ismay and Pirrie, it is probable that Pirrie himself made
the first preliminary drawings for the new behemoths.
9
At the earliest stages of development, during the critical months between
April of 1907 and July of 1908, there was another key figure in the
development of the concept for the Olympic and Titanic. His name was
Alexander Montgomery Carlisle, and he was in point of fact Lord Pirrie’s
brother-in-law. This relationship was formed through Carlisle’s sister,
Margaret Montgomery, who had married Pirrie in 1879. Carlisle was born in
1854, and had joined Harland & Wolff as a premium apprentice in 1870,
when he was sixteen years of age. By 1890, he had risen through the ranks to
become the yard’s General Manager, and by 1907, he was the Chairman of the
Managing Directors. He was an outspoken man of robust health, later telling
someone that he had never really known true illness in the whole of his life.
He loved riding his bicycle, which he did every day, and he also said that he
enjoyed the thrill of cycling through heavy traffic. He also never wore an
overcoat, no matter how cold the day was.
10
Carlisle was intimately involved in the designs for the new vessels, and
took particular care in making sure that their general arrangement, their
scheme of internal decoration, and their equipment were all of top-notch
quality.
11 Carlisle remained with the shipyard through the design phase of the
two new liners, and saw construction begin in earnest on both. He eventually
retired from the company on June 30, 1910,12 and moved to London. There, in
1911, he became a member of the Merchant Shipping Advisory Committee on
Life-Saving Appliances.
When Carlisle departed the shipyard, his position was filled by one of
Harland & Wolff’s true rising stars. This man could typically be seen in the
yard offices, or making his way through the shipyard wearing a paint-smeared
bowler hat, as well as a blue linen jacket, the pockets of which were
invariably stuffed with plans. At nearly six feet in height and weighing two
hundred pounds, he was well built and bore broad shoulders, with the figure
of a man accustomed to athletic exertions such as cricket. Despite his athletic
build, it is likely that he walked rather stiffly at times, especially after a long
day on his feet in the yard.13 This figure – with dark brown hair, a cleanshaven face, and brown eyes – was none other than Thomas Andrews, Jr,
nephew of Lord Pirrie.
This photograph shows the Belfast City Hall, which was constructed while Thomas Andrews lived
nearby. This view looks roughly southwest.
Wellington Place, looking west, with the grounds of City Hall on the left. Andrews’ residence in
1901, Number 11, is on the right side of the street in the distance.
Standing in front of the new City Hall, looking north, shows a magnificent view of Donegall
Place. If Thomas Andrews walked to work from his residence, he would have crossed the street
here moving from left to right. The building on the east side of the street – also visible on the right
side of the previous photo – still stands today.
Born on February 7, 1873, Andrews was only running through his mid- to
late-thirties during the construction of the Olympic and Titanic.
14 Despite his
relative youth, his sharp wit and penchant for hard work had long-since
brought him prominence within his uncle’s company. Andrews had been with
the yard since 1889, when he had joined as a premium apprentice at the tender
age of sixteen. During his five-year stretch as an apprentice, there wasn’t the
slightest hint that he was loafing along, expecting to be shown some sort of
favor because his uncle was, at the time, gaining prominence in the firm.
In those years, Andrews worked tirelessly during the day and continued
his studies in the evening hours. As of March, 1901, he was boarding at 11
Wellington Place by Donegall Square, just down and across the street from the
Belfast City Hall building, which was then under construction.
15 The
residence was also quite close to Queen’s Island and the Harland & Wolff
yards.
16 Every day on his way to and from work, Andrews would have passed
the splendid new City Hall, watching the workmen climb about the
scaffolding which enshrouded its outer structure, and no doubt he followed its
progress with interest. Of course, that eight-year construction project must
have, in some ways, paled in comparison with the tremendous projects that
Andrews was involved in bringing to life at the shipyard – and the massive
structures that he helped to design and build braved the rugged elements of the
North Atlantic.
At the time, Andrews was deeply involved in the construction of White
Star’s ‘Big Four’ ocean liners, and was serving as Assistant Shipyard
Manager.
17 Before the year was out, he would be appointed Manager of the
Construction Works.
18 By 1907, he had been appointed Managing Director of
Harland & Wolff. At that time, he was intimately connected with the design of
the Olympic and Titanic, as the formal order from White Star to proceed with
work on the new giants had been given on April 30 of that same year. By that
point, Andrews had earned a well-deserved reputation as a genius in the field
of ship design, and a bright future was ahead of him within the company.
19
Interestingly, Andrews usually referred to his position as that of a
‘Shipbuilder’ or a ‘Director’ of the shipbuilding firm he worked at, rather
than claiming the more formal title of ‘Naval Architect’. This was despite the
fact that he was a Member of the Institution of Naval Architects, the Institution
of Mechanical Engineers, the Society of Naval Architects and Marine
Engineers, as well as an Honorary Member of the Belfast Association of
Engineers.
20
If his work was going well, things in his personal life certainly were, as
well. On June 24, 1908, when Thomas Andrews was aged thirty-five, he
married Helen Reilly Barbour. Helen was then aged twenty-seven, and was a
member of a prominent Irish family. The couple honeymooned in Switzerland,
and upon their return moved into Dunallon, 12 Windsor Avenue, Belfast.
21
Dunallon House was a comfortable, detached, two-floor brick home located
in the very desirable Malone area of southern Belfast; it was just a few blocks
from the prestigious Queen’s University of Belfast, and was located only
about four miles from Queen’s Island and the Harland & Wolff yards. This
meant that the location could hardly have been more ideal for Andrews’ work
and for his family. The house was large enough that by 1911, the Andrews
employed four servants – a cook, a housemaid, a parlormaid, and a general
servant – in its upkeep.22
Just over a month after the wedding was another momentous day in
Andrews’ life. On Wednesday, July 29, 1908, representatives from the White
Star Line traveled to Belfast and gave their formal approval for Harland &
Wolff’s design variant ‘D’ of their new steamships, Olympic and Titanic. For
Andrews, it was an incredible and exciting period of life: a new wife, a new
home, and a new project of unprecedented proportions to begin construction
on.
Apparently lacking nothing in his personal and professional lives, Thomas
Andrews was a tireless worker. He was not content to be an ‘office man’, as
it were. Although he had much paperwork and designing to oversee, he could
– and frequently did – show up anywhere within the shipyard at any given
time. From the Draughting Offices to the Boiler Shop, then to the Engine
Works and even up to the Moulding Loft, then on to the Joiner’s Shop and out
onto the various slipways to climb over and inspect every square inch of the
ships, he was everywhere at all times, it seemed, throughout the vast shipyard
complex. His daily travels through the yard would have exhausted most other
men, but it was routine for him.
However, his visits were never unwelcome ones to the workers. He was
always willing to pitch in and lend a hand at some physically demanding task
as the need arose. He was known to have shared his lunch with fellow
workers when the need came up. Even so, Andrews was not afraid to correct
workers when he saw them doing something the wrong way or breaking
shipyard rules. It was said afterward that while he wouldn’t fire a worker
when he found him in the middle of some such nonsense, he would give the
worker ‘the rough side of his tongue and a friendly caution.’
He also enjoyed it when workers did more than just mindlessly plug away
at their tasks – he encouraged them to put their minds into it. If workers
thought that they had a better way to do something, Andrews was willing to
listen to their input. In fact, everyone seemed to describe him as cheery,
optimistic, and generous. One yard foreman recalled that it ‘seemed his
delight to make those around him happy. His was ever the friendly greeting
and the warm handshake and kind disposition.’
Such a friendly, personable attitude is something rarely found in people
possessing great talent and abilities, as Andrews unquestionably did. He was
always interested in seeing how work was progressing on the ships he had
played such an important role in designing. He was passionate about his work
– a perfectionist in every form of the word. Indeed, one of his co-workers
described him as ‘diligent to the point of strenuousness’. He was always
willing to acknowledge the hard work of other people, and his wife recalled
that he had ‘of himself the humblest opinion of anyone I ever knew’.
23
Andrews rose very early every morning and frequently worked late into
the evening. Although he lived only a few miles from the shipyard, he had a
Renault motorcar at his disposal. This allowed him to bypass the city’s not
wholly reliable system of public transportation and travel to and from the yard
at any time of day, whether early in the morning or late at night.
Even as the forms of the Olympic and Titanic took shape on Slips Nos 2
and 3, Andrews and his wife had begun their own building project: the
construction of a family. When the Olympic took to the water for the first time
on October 20, 1910, Helen Andrews was about eight months pregnant. She
would give birth to a daughter, named Elizabeth, on November 27.24
One wonders how Andrews could have juggled the responsibilities of
family and work so, but he was not the only incredibly talented or hardworking individual in the shipyard as the Titanic was taking shape. Beyond
the thousands of individual workers – most of whom were diligent,
hardworking men who were every bit as proud of the ships they built as
Andrews was – there were others who held key positions of oversight.
For example, one of the senior Naval Architects within Harland & Wolff
was a man named Edward Wilding. Aged 35 in April of 1911, he was
recently married to a woman named Marion Emily. The newlyweds lived in
the Jordanstown area of suburban Belfast, on the west side of the Belfast
Lough, and had two servants – Housemaid Margaret Glynn and Cook Julia
Stewart.
25 Apart from his family life, however, Wilding would have been kept
quite busy with long days spent at the shipyard. He worked very closely with
Thomas Andrews, and had been a friend for some time, attending Thomas and
Helen’s wedding in the summer of 1908.
Wilding worked very closely with Andrews and other members of the
design staff, and he knew the ship nearly as well as Andrews did. Indeed,
later on he would be able to pull many facts and figures regarding the ship’s
technical construction directly from his memory, and he almost infallibly
knew where to find anything he didn’t know off-hand. Beyond Wilding, there
were over four dozen various department heads at Harland & Wolff. Each
was responsible for the division under their watch, and each consulted daily
or nearly daily with Thomas Andrews.
Another person who had oversight of the unprecedented construction
project that was the Olympic and Titanic was a man who actually did not
work for Harland & Wolff. His name was Francis Carruthers, and he was
employed by the British Board of Trade as an on-site surveyor; his job was to
ensure that both ships were meeting Board of Trade requirements for design,
strength and safety. By 1912, the 54-year-old Carruthers had some thirteen
years of experience as a sea-going engineer, and he had been in the
employment of the Board of Trade for sixteen.
26
In all, by mid-1912, he had
been surveying ships for twenty years. Carruthers lived in Ballybeen,
Dundonald – which was just east of Belfast proper – with his wife Mary and
son William.
27
Over a period of about two and a half years, during the construction of the
Olympic and Titanic, Carruthers made careful inspections, nearly every day,
of the progress being made on the vessels.
28 He also served as an
intermediary between the Board of Trade and Harland & Wolff, regularly
corresponding with Board of Trade representatives and discussing technical
details of the new liners in order to ensure the highest standard of build
quality; he was also to furnish answers to any questions Board representatives
in London might have had regarding their design.
This view, looking south across Victoria Channel, shows Slips Nos 2 and 3 and the Great Gantry.
This photograph shows the Titanic’s bow on the slip during May of 1911. Her anchors have not yet
been put in place, but the anchor cable for her center anchor has recently been attached and
remains unwound, dangling from the hawsepipe. The ship’s name was written in after the
photograph was taken, and inaccurately at that.
Forging the massive anchor chains, which were referred to as ‘anchor cables’.
Titanic’s center anchor was shipped across the Irish Sea to Ireland, where it was eventually fitted
in place aboard the liner.
When the London representatives had questions, they would send them to
Carruthers, who would obtain the information directly, or pass on the requests
to Harland & Wolff personnel like Thomas Andrews. When he was able to get
the answers directly, he would submit them back to the Board of Trade; at
other times, the shipyard personnel would personally respond to the Board’s
inquiries.
Carruthers’ job was at times a delicate one. The laws always needed to
be complied with, and of course that was nothing extraordinary. However,
where the ships were breaking new ground – and this was quite frequent on
ships half again as large in enclosed space as anything previously built – both
the Board of Trade and the shipyard needed to come to agreements on such
technical details. At the same time, Carruthers was privy to highly sensitive,
cutting-edge information that was not to be shared with others, because some
of the finite details of the ships’ construction were very advanced, and
competition between shipyards was so keen. Looking through the
correspondence between the Board of Trade, Carruthers, and shipyard
personnel, it seems that – just as could be expected on any modern building
project – there were any number of opportunities for annoyances between the
shipyard and the Board of Trade, each with the potential to catch Carruthers in
the middle. Yet it seems that Carruthers was able to strike a good balance, as
is indicated by the length of his tenure.
As one particular example, there was a point in April of 1910 when
Carruthers was not certain that the design of the collision bulkhead on the
Olympic and Titanic was sufficient; existing plans called for it to be
‘stepped’ forward some six frames on E Deck. Harland & Wolff’s team was
certain this would prove no issue, and contended ‘that they were right’, but
Carruthers was not entirely convinced. So he forwarded the dilemma to the
London offices, requesting instructions. The Board of Trade’s Principal Ship
Surveyor, Mr Archer, initially thought that Carruthers’ objection was correct.
Harland & Wolff explained to the Board of Trade in great detail the
methodology behind their design, and provided them with highly specific
flooding calculations. After a great deal of correspondence spanning several
months, Principal Ship Surveyor Alfred J. Daniel was able to write on
September 15 that he had confirmed Harland & Wolff’s calculations. With the
ships’ second watertight bulkhead carried right up to D Deck, both the Board
of Trade and Harland & Wolff felt confident in the safety of this particular
area of the designed watertight subdivision. Carruthers was able to report on
June 2, 1911 that ‘all requirements of the Board’ on the subject had been
‘satisfactorily carried out’.
29
Carruthers was also very busy inspecting every other feature of the ships’
design and the quality of their construction. In the course of Carruthers’ daily
inspections, he saw the double bottom filled with water to test for
watertightness, and he also saw the Forepeak tank filled with water to ensure
that it would withstand the pressure of any flooding.
30 Although none of the
ship’s other watertight compartments were tested by flooding to ensure
watertightness, Carruthers satisfied himself that each one was watertight by a
thorough inspection of the riveting quality and the quality of the caulking. Just
a few days before the ship was finished, he also made a careful inspection of
each bulkhead piercing – for steam piping, conduit, or electrical wires and the
like – to make sure that it would be watertight in an emergency situation.
31
From these few simple examples, it can be seen just how involved
Carruthers was in the day-to-day activity in the shipyard as the Olympic and
Titanic were both constructed. Indeed, between Carruthers and the other
Board of Trade Surveyors who visited the ship in the course of construction,
they made an estimated two to three thousand visits for inspections of the
vessels.
32
Another familiar face at the Harland & Wolff shipyard as the Olympic and
Titanic were constructed was the man who would eventually serve as the first
Chief Engineer of each ship: Joseph Bell. Bell had served his engineering
apprenticeship as a youth at the Tyneside works of Robert Stephenson, and
had become one of the White Star Line’s most trusted engineers. He was so
trusted, in fact, that he had been sent to Belfast to oversee the construction and
installation of the engines of a number of new White Star liners, including the
Laurentic and Megantic in 1908 and 1909.33 He had subsequently taken each
of those liners out for their first few voyages, serving as Chief Engineer.
The Laurentic and Megantic had been unique for the company’s fleet, as
they were nearly identical in every respect except their powerplants. While
the Megantic had been bestowed with a pair of traditional reciprocating
engines operating twin screws, the Laurentic had also been given a lowpressure turbine, operated from exhaust steam from the reciprocating engines,
which drove a third, central propeller. It was this hybrid powerplant which
was subsequently adopted on the Olympic-class liners, and so Bell was one
of the most experienced engineers in the world on that type of powerplant.
Subsequently, Bell had remained ‘in Belfast during the whole of the time
[Olympic] was being built, superintending her construction, making any
suggestions which he thought would lead to improvements.’34
Such a large segment of Belfast was focused on the construction of the
Olympic and Titanic that a large portion of the city came to depend on them.
Their construction provided employment and a means of providing for
thousands of families for a period of about three-and-a-half years. Beyond
merely providing jobs, however, the entire city came to take the new liners
into its collective heart. The Olympic and Titanic were ‘Belfast’s own’, the
pride of the great city.
Progress on the ships was steady and, considering their size, surprisingly
quick. The Olympic’s construction was advanced by some months over that of
her sister, and work on her proceeded more quickly than it did on the Titanic.
Work did advance on Titanic at a good pace, however; the process of setting
her frames in place was finished by April 6, 1910, just over a year after her
keel was laid. The process of installing individual hull plates to the frames
followed immediately thereafter, and continued until October 19, 1910. The
following day, all attention was focused on the launch of the Olympic, and her
subsequent tow to the fitting out basin for completion. As the Olympic entered
this new phase of her construction, work on the Titanic progressed rapidly
toward the time when she, herself, would be launched. That event was
scheduled to take place on Wednesday, May 31, 1911.
Joseph Bell, Chief Engineer of the Olympic, and subsequently the Titanic.
This photograph was taken in July of 1911. It shows the aft end of Titanic’s port reciprocating
engine, looking forward, in the engine assembly shop at Harland & Wolff. The Titanic’s yard
number, 401, is clearly seen marked in numerous locations on the engine itself.
As the date of launch neared, the hull of the Titanic assumed its finished
form. Atop the hull, some portions of the superstructure – including A and B
Decks – were already built and in place. When the Titanic was ready to take
to the water for the first time, she was nearly a carbon copy of her slightly
older sister. Her Promenade Deck was open for its entire length, just as
Olympic’s was. Even the windows along her B Deck were configured as
Olympic’s were, in several large clusters along each side. However, there
was one marked difference in the two ships’ appearance at the time of their
respective launches: Whereas the Olympic’s hull had been painted ‘virgin
white’ with dark red anti-fouling paint applied below the waterline on the day
she was launched, the Titanic was painted in her White Star service colors –
white superstructure, black hull, and dark red anti-fouling below the
waterline.
35 Excitement around Belfast over the second Olympic-class liner’s
forthcoming launch was at an all-time peak. That Harland & Wolff had built
the largest ocean liner in the world, which was then nearing completion, was
a tremendous feat in and of itself. To have produced two such liners side by
side, and constructed nearly simultaneously, was a remarkable
accomplishment.
Titanic stands on the ways, nearly ready for launch.
This is one of the best-known Titanic photographs. The grandstands have been erected for
spectators to view the launch from; yard workers are dwarfed by the towering hull. The anchors
are in place. The ship’s name was artistically enhanced on the plate-glass negative, but the
‘improvement’ at least closely matches the actual letters’ shape and size.
Preparations for the event also included the erection of grandstands to
accept members of the public who had purchased tickets, and also for the
various dignitaries who would be on hand. Yard workers who had tasks to
perform in connection with the launch would, of course, be allowed to remain
on hand to witness the event. On May 30, 1911, a flurry of request forms
would have been presented to yard foremen by various employees. As of the
spring of 1910, all Harland & Wolff employees who wished to watch a launch
event, and who were not actively involved in it, were required to submit a
request for permission to be present. As there would have been no pay for the
time that they would not have worked, some would no doubt have felt that it
was just as important to stick with their assigned tasks elsewhere in the yard.
Many others, however, were proud of the ship and their accomplishment in
her construction, and made arrangements to be present.
36
Two years and two months to the day after Titanic’s keel was laid, the
morning dawned when she would take to the water for the first time. The
shipyard was a hive of activity. The weather was clear and fair, with a cool
southerly breeze. Twenty-one tons of tallow and soap had been spread on the
772-foot sliding ways, in a coating one inch thick, to facilitate the movement
of the vessel’s massive 26,000-ton bulk into the water. That morning, workers
crawled around the ground beneath the towering hull, making final
preparations for the launch. Support timbers which steadied the hull while it
stood perched atop the ways were knocked out, one after another, leaving the
vessel balanced ever more precariously on the ways.
The task was dangerous, as many tasks were in the construction of the
Titanic and other vessels of the day. One worker, James Dobbin, was crushed
by a falling timber on that morning. He was seriously injured and died the next
day. He was not the first, nor would he be the last to die in building the great
liner. In the full course of the ship’s construction, up to the time of her
delivery, some eight people died building the Titanic. Twenty-eight others
were seriously injured, and a further 218 slight injuries were noted.37
Despite the injury to – and eventual death of – James Dobbin, the launch
preparations continued to progress that morning. Eventually, the ship was
standing poised atop the ways, held in place only by the hydraulic launch
triggers. Lord Pirrie & Bruce Ismay were photographed in the shadow of the
Titanic’s hull, walking along the floor of Slip No. 3 underneath the Great
Gantry. It was Pirrie himself who made a final inspection of the preparations
before signaling that all was ready.
Throughout the morning, crowds had built steadily, and eventually, some
100,000 were present. An atmosphere of anticipation slowly began to build as
the set launch time of 12:15 p.m. approached. J. P. Morgan, the driving force
behind the IMM, and Bruce Ismay’s wife – along with some others from their
family – were present. There were a great number of other important
personages present, as well. It was noted:
Ladies formed a considerable proportion of the aggregate attendance,
and even if their picturesque frocks appeared a trifle incongruous
when contrasted with the surroundings of the shipyards itself they
were unmistakably in harmony with the glow of the soft turquoise sky,
from which the piercing rays of the sun descended, making the heat
exceedingly trying… The weather was glorious, a multitude of people
assembled to bid the vessel ‘God speed’, and it would be impossible
to conceive of a launch for which the whole of the conditions could be
more ideal.
38
This photograph seems to have been taken on the mid- to late-morning of May 31, 1911, and
looking to the north. Titanic’s bow stands beneath the Great Gantry, awaiting launch. The White
Star Line pennant flutters from the center of the gantry. Queen’s Road, in the foreground, is a busy
scene; many of the people visible are doubtless headed to view the special event.
Spectators stream into the yard.
Two women – a rare sight in the shipyard – make their way toward the grandstands. A young man,
also visible in the preceding photograph, stands behind a lengthy makeshift fence. It is possible
that he was stationed there to help make sure non-employees did not cross into dangerous areas of
the shipyard.
A throng of special invitees wends its way through the shipyard toward the towering bow of the
Titanic. Careful inspection of the photo shows another yard employee standing behind a makeshift
fence, perhaps to keep the human traffic flowing smoothly through designated areas.
This photograph emphasizes the Titanic’s great size, even as the crowd begins to swell in her
shadow.
The bow of the Titanic retreats down the ways, and the crowd begins to rush after her.
Titanic’s stern plunges into the water for the first time.
Taken only a couple of seconds after the previous photo, the stern continues to glide backward,
while the liner’s bow has not yet left the ways.
This photographer has moved onto the newly-vacated ways to snap a unique photo of the liner
bobbing in the water.
In the end, the Titanic was given no special attention or greater ceremony than
was bestowed upon the Olympic the previous fall. Contrary to popular belief,
and at least one cinematic depiction, the Titanic was not christened with a
bottle of champagne broken over the prow and a formal invocation for divine
protection. Typical of all Harland & Wolff launches, the hull was simply ‘let
go’. Two foremen turned the release valve, the hydraulic triggers canted over,
and the monstrous hull began to slide inexorably down the ways and toward
the water.
It was two minutes before her official launch time, 12:13 p.m., when the
Titanic began to move. Technically speaking, she did not in that moment
become the largest moving object ever made at the time. She and her sister
Olympic were identical in dimensions, and by that point, the Olympic had
been completed and formally held the title. That small detail, however, did
not dampen the spirits of the crowd as they saw her begin her journey.
It was a wonderful and awe-inspiring sight and a thrill passed through
the crowd as their hopes and expectations were realised. The ship
glided down to the river with a grace and dignity which for the
moment gave one the impression that she was conscious of her own
strength and beauty, and there was a roar of cheers as the timber by
which she had been supported yielded to the pressure put upon them.
She took the water as though she were eager for the baptism, and in the
short space of 62 seconds she was entirely free of the ways.
39
A mad cacophony of whistles and sirens from river steamers followed the
cheering. Then there came the great clatter as the drag chains began to slow
the ship’s progress before she simply careened into the opposite bank. At last,
the knife-edge of the prow slid from the ways and into the water. The ship
was afloat for the first time, and she came to a stop ‘in less than one half of
her own length’, bobbing serenely on the surface of the River Lagan. The
launch was a complete success.
The men on board took off their caps and cheered lustily after the
launch had been consummated, and the thousands of people in the yard
and on the banks of the river promptly followed their example. For
two or three minutes there were scenes of great enthusiasm. The tugs
which were waiting close at hand to convey the vessel to the deep
water wharf, where she will receive her engines, sent up shrill sounds
from their sirens, the ladies waved their handkerchiefs excitedly, and
the men shouted themselves hoarse. But gradually the noise of the
sirens and the cheers of the spectators died away, and a quarter of an
hour after the vessel had been pulled up the crowd had melted away,
and the yard was left in possession of the workmen who had for
months been devoting their energies and talents to the building of the
mighty leviathan.
40
Yard tugs begin to take the hull of the Titanic to the fitting out jetty to commence the next phase of
work.
A unique view of the newly-launched vessel’s starboard side.
A ferry filled with spectators passes the Titanic as tugs move her toward the fitting out jetty.
This photo was taken in early June, 1911, and shows the fitting out in its earliest stages. The two
structures on the Forecastle are lavatories, and the tail pipes help direct sewage away from the
ship’s hull.
Slowly, as the ship was towed away to the fitting-out jetty, the excitement and
crowds began to thin. It was later said that ‘the spectacle was one which can
never fade from the memory of those who witnessed it’, and that ‘if the
circumstances under which the launch took place can be accepted as an augury
of the future, the Titanic should be a huge success’.
41 Belfast celebrated
heartily that night, and with good reason. Not only had the Titanic been
launched successfully, but the Olympic – largest ship in the world – had left
and would soon set out on her maiden voyage. Things were going very well
for White Star and for Harland & Wolff.
Yet an enormous task still lay ahead of the workers at the Belfast shipyard.
The Titanic’s enormous hull was an engine-less, function-less shell. Her
cavernous steel interior spaces needed to be transformed into finished,
comfortable – and in First Class, luxurious – accommodations for her
passengers and crew. Carpenters and joiners would now take their place
beside riveters and steel workers in bringing the ship to life. The interior
spaces that they were creating would be truly breathtaking.
On the Boat Deck, behind the Bridge and Officers’ Quarters, was the First
Class Entrance, which housed the Grand Staircase. On all Atlantic liners, the
main First Class staircase was a high traffic area, but the Titanic was graced
with arguably the most beautiful First Class staircase ever built; in fact, she
was endowed with two of them. The main, forward Grand Staircase ran from
the Boat Deck down to E Deck. Made from solid oak with intricately handcarved panels, columns, and accents, it was topped off by a 19 foot by 26 foot
wrought iron and white glass dome that allowed daylight to illuminate the
First Class Entrance. At night, the dome was electrically illuminated. There
were lights within the outer skylight casing which backlit the dome itself at
night. There were also lights in the carved wood molding around the interior
of the dome’s base, which were concealed from the view of those below.
Finally, a fifty-light fixture was installed in the center of the dome; with a gilt
metal frame, a cut-glass bowl, and glass-bead panels, it was the perfect
centerpiece to an already magnificent setup.42
Looking forward, and slightly to port, from the A Deck landing of Olympic’s forward First Class
Grand Staircase.
Olympic’s ‘Honour & Glory Crowning Time’. A similar carving was installed in this location on
Titanic.
Olympic’s Grand Staircase, seen here flowing into the Reception Room on D Deck. A special
candelabra stands at the foot of the center balustrade. This photo was taken while the room was
still under construction – notice the tarp at the lower-right corner of the image.
Olympic’s First Class Reception Room, looking from starboard to port, gives an idea of how the
same space on Titanic appeared.
Olympic’s First Class Dining Saloon, on the port side, looking forward toward the Reception
Room. The tables are set and appear ready to take passengers.
Against the forward wall of the half-landing between the Boat Deck and A
Deck was an ornate wood carving meant to represent ‘Honour and Glory
Crowning Time’, which was similar if not identical to that gracing Olympic’s
staircase. In the center of this carving there were plans to install a clock. This
clock, like many others in various public spaces aboard the ship, would help
passengers keep track of correct ship’s time as it was adjusted each day. To
prevent the necessity of sending stewards through the ship adjusting each
clock, and making sure that they all agreed with each other, these devices
were operated on what was called a Magneta system. Two ‘master’ clocks
located inside watertight cases in the Chart Room recorded the time to the
second. They were tied in to nearly fifty ‘slave’ clocks located in various
areas all over the ship. This included the Wheelhouse clock, one of the two
Marconi Operating Room clocks – the second one being set to New York
Time – and various public rooms throughout the ship. Thus, as the Titanic’s
time was adjusted at sea, these ‘slave’ clocks automatically updated to reflect
that change.
43
On every level of the Grand Staircase, there was a large foyer, the largest
of which was on D Deck, and formed the First Class Reception Room. The
Reception Room, which ran the full width of the ship, was the area where
passengers could gather for tea during the day, and where they gathered prior
to entering the adjacent First Class Dining Saloon for meals, as well as for
after-dinner music. A Steinway grand piano
44 and a space where the orchestra
could play completed the elegant atmosphere. The Reception Room and most
other public rooms closed at 11:00 p.m., meaning that any passengers who
wanted to extend their evening’s activities beyond that hour would have to do
so in the Lounge – open until 11:30 – or Smoking Room.
The Dining Saloon, just astern of the Reception Room, was an immense
public space. It ran the full width of the ship, like the Reception Room, and
was 113 feet long. While the Reception Room deck was covered in a dark
Axminster carpet, the Saloon’s deck was covered in ‘lino’ tiles. The color of
this tiling seems to have been red, ocher and blue.
45
While the Dining Saloons on many previous Atlantic liners, including the
Lusitania and Mauretania, took up two or more decks and were often capped
with elaborate domes, the new White Star ships’ Saloons were only a single
deck in height. Many were critical of this decision, notably Leonard Peskett
from Cunard when he toured the Olympic.
46 For one thing, multi-deck Saloons
allowed stifling warm air – always a bane in those times before fully air-
conditioned liners – to rise away from both diners and frazzled Saloon
Stewards. For another thing, Saloons encompassing more than one level gave
a great sense of roominess. Titanic’s admittedly lost some points on both
accounts. However, no one could complain about the room’s tasteful Jacobean
décor; neither could anyone find fault with the fact those dining in the Saloon
found themselves ensconced in comfortable, leather-padded chairs that were
freed from all restraints to the deck. Every other Atlantic liner, including the
Lusitania and Mauretania, retained the old-fashioned bolted-to-the-deck
Saloon chairs, and they were all instantly dated with the introduction of the
Olympic-class ships.
47
A fine view of Olympic’s First Class Restaurant on B Deck.
A March 1912 photo of Titanic’s Gymnasium on the Boat Deck.
On B Deck just astern of the aft Grand Staircase, an extra tariff, or à la
carte, First Class Restaurant was installed.48
 This facility would cater to First
Class passengers who wished to dine in more intimate surroundings than the
Dining Saloon, or who wished for more flexibility in their meal times. The
concept of seagoing extra tariff restaurants had been conceived by the
enterprising head of the German Hamburg-Amerika Line, Albert Ballin, when
his liner Amerika was being built by Harland & Wolff in 1904–1905. On the
way to check in on the progress of her construction, he had dined at the new
London Ritz-Carlton Restaurant, and had been absolutely taken with the
experience. He had subsequently hammered out a deal whereby actual Ritz
Restaurants – run by Ritz-Carlton directly, with a separate kitchen facility,
employing Ritz–Carlton staff, and bearing Ritz insignia on their menus – could
be installed on his liners.
Ballin’s concept had been such a fantastic success that White Star had
decided to follow Hamburg-Amerika’s lead. However, the Titanic’s
Restaurant was not directly affiliated with the Ritz-Carlton, and its menus did
not bear Ritz insignia. Despite this, for any seasoned trans-Atlantic travelers
who had previously taken passage on German liners, the terminology tended
to stick. Passengers on the Olympic – and eventually Titanic – frequently if
incorrectly referred to these facilities as the ‘Ritz Restaurant.’
The à la carte Restaurant itself was paneled in French walnut with ‘richly
carved and gilded’ mouldings and ornaments, and a vieux rose, or old rose,
colored Axminster carpet. The overall style was Louis XVI, and seemed to be
quite a success with those who reviewed the room’s décor. White Star
selected 37-year-old Gaspare Antonio Pietro Gatti, previously of the
Oddonino Imperial Restaurant in London, to run Titanic’s establishment.
49
 His
staff was drawn from top-end London restaurants, and was largely Italian and
French. The Restaurant’s personnel were not formal members of the ship’s
victualling crew, and they did not report to the ship’s Chief Steward, but
rather functioned as a wholly separate entity.
Directly aft of the First Class Entrance, on the starboard side of the Boat
Deck, was a Gymnasium intended solely for the use of First Class passengers.
Here, the more athletically inclined could while away the hours on rowing
machines, stationary bicycles, or even enjoying the novelty of a ride on an
electric camel. The use of all of this equipment was free of charge.
50
However, ladies could only use the Gymnasium between 10:00 a.m. and 1:00
p.m. Children could only use the room between 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m.
Gentlemen could use the facility from 2:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. There was also a
map that could be used to track the progress of the Titanic as it plowed its
way across the Atlantic. Adding to the atmosphere, the Gymnasium was
illuminated by natural light thanks to seven large arched windows. Thirtyfour-year-old Thomas W. McCawley served as the Gymnasium Instructor; he
provided, to passengers who needed such, both fitness advice and directions
on how to use the equipment.
51
Below, in the forward portions of F Deck, was the First Class Swimming
Bath. Although located deep within the ship, it was very easily accessed from
E Deck – at the foot of the forward First Class Grand Staircase – by a
secondary staircase that descended to F Deck. Passing through a watertight
door, passengers would then walk down a corridor toward the starboard side
of the ship. A door on the left, or forward side of the corridor, would then
lead them into the Swimming Bath. Here the passengers could use the adjacent
dressing rooms to change from their Edwardian splendor into attire more
befitting a plunge in the bath. The pool itself was filled with seawater which
was heated to a comfortable degree. Use of the facility was free to gentlemen
between 6:00 and 9:00 a.m., and ladies also had a period of time where
admission was free; during other times of the day, however, admission to the
Swimming Bath was 1s or $.25.52
Surprisingly, the Swimming Bath was a utilitarian space, resembling more
a Steerage portion of the ship. Only a coat of whitewash covered over the
ship’s steel hull and structure. While Swimming Baths were a new feature on
the Atlantic, just over a year after the Titanic was due to begin her maiden
voyage, the German liner Imperator would boast of a luxurious Pompeianstyle Swimming Bath. Encompassing two decks, with a spectator gallery and
stunning décor, the baths aboard Imperator – and her two sisters to follow –
trounced the appearance of the Swimming Baths aboard Olympic and Titanic.
Despite its Spartan feel, the bath was very popular aboard Olympic, and
would prove to be so on Titanic as well.
Olympic’s First Class Swimming Bath, nearly identical to that found on Titanic.
The Cooling Room of Olympic’s Turkish Baths. Although the arrangement and exact location of
this space differed on Titanic, the décor and furnishings were very similar.
Olympic’s First Class Reading and Writing Room, after it was reduced in size. This same space on
Titanic included an L-shaped section which extended forward.
Directly astern of the Swimming Bath were the Turkish and Electric
Baths. Use of these novel facilities cost 4s or $1 per person, and tickets were
obtainable from the Enquiry Office. Again, strict sex segregation was
enforced; ladies could use these baths between 10:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m., and
gentlemen could between 2:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
53 The Turkish and Electric
Baths were luxurious and elegantly decorated – exotically Moorish in their
feel and very chic for the period.
The Squash Racquet Court – also intended for the more athletically
inclined – was located on G Deck. It was two decks high, with a spectator’s
gallery on F Deck. Entry to the playing court was only obtained by descending
a set of stairs from the Spectator’s Gallery on F Deck, as there was no
entrance on G Deck itself. Use of this facility could be arranged through the
on-board Racquet Professional for 2s or $.50 per half hour, and included the
services of the Professional if his assistance was needed. Equipment such as
racquets or balls could also be rented for additional fees. If other passengers
were awaiting a turn at the game, players could not use the court for more than
two consecutive half-hour sessions.
54
The remaining First Class public spaces were centered on A Deck. Abaft
the Entrance, there was a corridor which led astern. On the port side of this
corridor was a door that led into the Reading & Writing Room. This room
was primarily designed as a space for ladies to spend their time during each
crossing, and decorated with their delicate tastes in mind. However, it was
open to the use of both sexes, and was available for use up to 11:30 p.m. With
a rose-colored carpet, white-painted paneling, and large windows looking out
upon the port side Promenade Deck, the room’s décor was quite soothing. The
ceiling of the room was extended above the level of the Boat Deck, and small
windows were set in to the portion of wall extending above the deck level,
giving additional access to sunlight during the day.
At the aft end of the corridor which gave access to the Reading & Writing
Room, there was a door that led into the Lounge. The Lounge was a large and
impressive space; it was designed as a place for men and women to spend
time with one another listening to music, playing cards, or simply socializing.
Like the Reading & Writing Room, the Lounge’s ceiling was taller than other
public rooms, extending beyond the constraints of the Boat Deck itself, and
giving it a particularly spacious feel. Afternoon tea was served in the Lounge,
which was fitted in the Louis XV-style. Details were taken from the Palace at
Versailles, and paneled in the finest English oak. The paneling was
embellished by detailed relief in floral, shell, and musical themes.
At sea, the Lounge was open for passengers’ use between 8:00 a.m. and
11:30 p.m. By special arrangement with The Times Book Club, a selection of
the latest works was also made available for passengers to choose from. Any
of these volumes were obtainable direct from the bookcase upon application
to the Steward in charge. Passengers were ‘respectfully’ asked ‘not to leave
volumes lying about the deck, and to return them when done with.’55 The
Lounge was also serviced by a small bar, accessed through a vestibule on the
starboard aft side of the room. This bar was directly connected, through a
small service window, to a Deck Pantry immediately astern. That Deck Pantry
serviced not only the Lounge, but also the decks immediately adjacent, which
were usually filled with passengers lounging in deck chairs.
56
Olympic’s First Class Lounge, looking forward and to port.
Looking aft along the starboard side of the Olympic’s Lounge.
This view shows Olympic’s First Class Smoking Room, looking forward and to starboard.
On the aft port side of the Lounge, a corridor ran aft, through a revolving
door, and beyond to the aft First Class Grand Staircase and a good-sized
Entrance. The aft stairs descended from the Promenade Deck down to B Deck.
Remaining on A Deck, moving aft of the aft staircase, one arrived in the
Smoking Room. As this space was the sole preserve of male passengers, it
was decorated in a decidedly masculine manner. There were backlit stainedglass windows along the inner walls, giving the illusion of eternal day.
Paneled in rich, dark mahogany with inlaid mother-of-pearl, there were
numerous small tables for playing cards and the like, and there was a working
fireplace set into the aft wall. Over its mantle hung a portrait by Norman
Wilkinson: ‘The Approach to the New World’ on the Olympic, and ‘Plymouth
Harbour’ on the Titanic. The floor tiles covered the deck in an interesting
pattern, and were blue and red in color.
57 Like the Reading & Writing Room
and Lounge forward, the Smoking Room’s ceiling was extended above the
level of the Boat Deck, giving extra access to light from the deck above and
also making the room feel more spacious. The Smoking Room Bar was open
from 8:00 a.m. to 11:30 p.m., and lights in the Smoking Room were turned out
at midnight.
58
Aft of the Smoking Room, on each side of the ship, were the Verandah
Cafés. These comfortable spaces were designed as places where passengers
could spend time enjoying the ocean vista outside, a close parallel to the idea
behind similar spaces on the Lusitania and Mauretania, although infinitely
superior in execution. The cafés installed on the Olympic and Titanic had an
advantage over those on the Cunard sisters as they were completely enclosed
and protected from the elements, while still retaining an outdoor feeling
complete with a trellis covering the walls for climbing plants. The port side
café was for the use of patrons who wished to smoke; the starboard café,
meanwhile, was restricted to non-smokers, and thus turned out to be quite
popular with mothers and those looking after young children. Light
refreshments could be obtained in the Verandah Cafés, but not full meals. The
rooms were officially open between 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
59
While Olympic and Titanic’s sumptuous First Class appointments may
have garnered the lion’s share of attention in the press and White Star
publicity, the majority of their passengers would actually book in Second and
Third Classes. As such, a great deal of thought and attention was also given to
providing comfortable accommodations for these two groups. Second Class
public rooms were quite luxurious for the period. It was said that ‘it would
have been difficult a few years ago to conceive such sumptuous apartments as
have been provided on the Olympic and Titanic.’60
Indeed, when compared
with the First Class accommodations of many other liners then in service,
particularly the smaller ones, Second Class on these newer ships was
generally considered far superior.
The Second Class Dining Saloon was located on D Deck, abaft the
Galley, which also serviced the First Class Dining Saloon. Like its First
Class counterpart, the Second Class Dining Saloon spanned the full width of
the liner, but was somewhat shorter. Whereas First Class passengers reveled
in unprecedented mobility with movable chairs, Second Class passengers’
Saloon seats remained bolted resolutely to the deck. Most of the tables could
accommodate eight persons, but in the busy season, the room’s capacity was
boosted by inserts which connected the tables, creating long, uninterrupted
rows. There was thus very little of the intimacy that First Class passengers
enjoyed in their Dining Saloon alcoves, or in the Restaurant on B Deck.
However, the Second Class Dining Saloon was considered a very efficient
use of space, and many passengers were able to make new and interesting
acquaintances during the voyage.
Olympic’s port side Verandah Café, looking toward the revolving door which led into the smoking
Room.
Titanic’s starboard Verandah Café.
The Olympic’s Second Class Dining Saloon, showing the room’s appearance with the tables
interconnected.
Olympic’s Second Class Library.
A well thought out pair of Second Class stairs and Entrances gave access
not only to Second Class cabins, but also to the Dining Saloon and – in the
case of the forward set – up to the Boat Deck. Directly above the Dining
Saloon, on C Deck, was the Second Class Library. Here, passengers could
socialize with each other, read, or write letters to friends and family ashore.
Six windows to port and six to starboard, all graced with silk curtains,
overlooked the Second Class Covered Promenade. That Promenade ran along
just inside the ship’s hull. There, passengers could enjoy a stroll and overlook
the sea through large sliding windows, all without being unnecessarily
exposed to the elements.
Directly above, on B Deck, was the Second Class Smoking Room. Like
the same space in First Class, this was the sole preserve of gentlemen.
Beyond the tasteful oak paneling, six windows on either side overlooked the
Second Class Open Promenade. The Second Class Lounge and Smoking
Room were closed at 11:30 p.m.
61
The Smoking Room itself was connected directly to the forward Second
Class Entrance. However, anyone utilizing the aft Second Class Entrance,
which did not continue past B Deck, would have been forced to exit to the
outer elements, walk forward to a midships door leading directly into the
Smoking Room, or along either side of the Smoking Room on the Promenade,
to doors leading into the Forward Second Class Entrance.
The Forward Second Class Entrance continued up through A Deck,
sandwiched between the First Class Verandah Cafés, but gave no external
access on that deck. Finally, passengers arrived at the Boat Deck level
Entrance, which was housed in a small rectangular deckhouse. Here,
passengers could egress to the open Boat Deck, where they were given
virtually free rein to stroll and promenade over a large section of open and
unencumbered deck. Their deck space ran from the stern rail at the Boat Deck
all the way to the railing denoting the start of the Engineer’s Promenade,
which extended out from the deckhouse enclosing the Reciprocating Engine
Hatch, Tank Room, and Engineers’ Smoke Room.
Third Class passengers were much less luxuriously housed. Instead of the
intricately carved paneling in the First and Second Class rooms, Third Class
had to make do with a whitewashed steel hull, exposed frames, and rivetheads. Even so, these passengers – primarily immigrants or working-class
individuals – would by and large have been thoroughly impressed with their
accommodations. Third Class service was considered of great importance to
steamship companies; even if these same individuals never took trans-Atlantic
passage again, it was hoped that they would tell friends and relatives what a
wonderful trip they had made, and that this positive ‘word-of-mouth’ would
generate future customers. Passengers accustomed to using outhouses, or who
had never tasted refrigerated milk or sampled the delights of ice cream, found
themselves partaking of such wonders in a significantly upgraded standard of
living.
Most Third Class passengers were accustomed to working with their
hands – often in appalling conditions – or had previously been employed in
the service of others. But in their Dining Saloon they were treated to fullservice attention by stewards who did their best to provide for their needs and
wishes. The Saloon itself was located amidships on F Deck, and was
comprised of two rooms separated by a watertight bulkhead with two
interconnecting watertight doors.
On C Deck, astern, Third Class passengers could promenade on the after
Well Deck, or they could climb two sets of stairs to the B Deck level and
walk around the Poop Deck. Promenading on the forward Well Deck was also
available to Third Class passengers, but in rough weather, that location was
not likely to be fit ‘for man or beast.’ Beneath the Poop Deck were the Third
Class General Room and Third Class Smoking Room. Both of these spaces
had portholes to the outside and seating consisted primarily of robustly-built
benches, along with a number of tables and chairs. While the Smoking Room
was intended for use only by men, the General Room was available to both
sexes, and it even had an upright piano for passengers to use during the
voyage. On D Deck, beneath the Well Deck forward, was the Third Class
Open Area, which was larger than the General Room and Smoking Room
combined, although it was fitted up similarly to those spaces. One bar
serviced the Open Area forward, while another served both the Smoking
Room and General Room. Third Class passengers were requested to turn in at
10:30 p.m.
The Third Class Entrance of the Olympic, underneath the Poop Deck. Looking through the door
on the left, or starboard, side, the General Room is visible; the door on the right, or port, side, led
into the Smoking Room.
The Olympic’s Third Class Smoking Room.
When Titanic was launched, however, all of these spaces were
nonexistent – blank sheets of canvas for the workmen to transform into
completed masterpieces. Months of work lay ahead for them. In light of all
this labor, one question was foremost on the minds of everyone involved, or
who had even a passing interest in the subject: exactly when would all of this
work be complete?
In the days immediately after the Titanic was launched, it seemed logical
to conclude that her fitting out would take about the same amount of time that it
had taken to fit out the Olympic: about seven-and-a-half months.
62 This would
have placed the Titanic’s maiden voyage somewhere around mid- to lateJanuary of 1912. As she was on a Wednesday sailing schedule, this may have
fallen somewhere around January 17, 24, or 31.
Beyond simple mathematics, there is actually evidence that, initially at
least, the yard was pushing to have the ship complete by that time. For
example, many of the Olympic and Titanic’s fittings and furnishings had to be
ordered many months in advance. In the process of Olympic’s fitting out, a
good number of these items were scheduled for delivery only about a month
before her maiden voyage, as they were wholly unneeded before that point.
With Titanic, similar or identical items – including some of her special-order
sets of china – were scheduled for delivery in December of 1911.
Additionally, some of Titanic’s special suites – which were completed by
a subcontracting firm rather than the builders directly – were actually finished
and furnished by January of 1912. At that point, most of the ship’s interiors
were still a tangled web of confusion, with joiners, carpenters and others
vying for space to work in order to have the spaces completed on schedule.
Indeed, even by the time the ship sailed, some of the work on her interior
spaces was still incomplete. Yet those suites were finished long in advance
and sat gathering dust.
However, any plans for a January of 1912 maiden voyage for the Titanic
quickly came to a screeching halt. During the summer of 1911, the official
date for the Titanic’s maiden voyage was announced as Wednesday, March
20, 1912 – some two months later than originally anticipated. It seems that
shortly after Titanic was launched, something was found that would require
more time to handle. What was this alteration? What could have intruded upon
such a delicately choreographed schedule? Simply put, it was the maiden
voyage of the Olympic.
Overall, Bruce Ismay was so pleased with the Olympic’s performance that
before she had even reached New York, the option was exercised to order a
third ship of the class: the Britannic. In other words, Olympic was overall a
resounding success. However as she steamed west, Bruce Ismay, Thomas
Andrews and others connected with White Star and Harland & Wolff were
going over things with a fine-tooth comb. A few details began to come to light
that could be improved upon on Titanic. Some of these were quite small in the
overall scheme of things, but others would be far more involved in
implementing. The minor upgrades to Olympic would be made within a few
crossings’ time; the more involved of them were slated for integration during
her next major overhaul. All of them, however, would be put to right on the
Titanic from the start.
Titanic’s port side Private Promenade, for rooms B-52, -54 and -56, looking forward. This suite
was occupied by J. Bruce Ismay and was not found on Olympic.
The starboard Private Promenade, for rooms B-51, -53 and -55, looking aft from the First Class
Entrance. This suite was occupied by Charlotte Cardeza during the maiden voyage, and like its
port side counterpart was not found on Olympic.
A number were minor matters. Some of the mattresses in First Class on
the Olympic were found to be too springy, a detail which tended to enhance
the minor vibration from the working of the ship’s engines. The problem
would be solved by fitting lath bottoms to the beds on Olympic, and would not
be repeated on Titanic. There was a need to fit cigar holders in the First Class
bathrooms. It was also necessary to remove some of the wardrobe door
mirrors in certain C Deck cabins. Apparently if a passenger was inside the
cabin dressing or undressing, and the entrance door was ajar, the mirror on the
wardrobe door could under certain circumstances allow anyone in the
passage outside to see them. It was also found that some of the ship’s interior
spaces could grow uncomfortably warm during the summer months, and
improvements in ventilation were needed.63
Perhaps the most complex changes, however, were highly involved
alterations to Titanic’s B Deck. Olympic’s B Deck sported long enclosed
promenades between the First Class cabins and the ship’s hull. When
combined with an even longer open promenade on A Deck just above and
large amounts of space on the Boat Deck as well, it all seemed a bit
excessive. An idea was thus conceived to utilize otherwise redundant space:
installing new cabins outboard in place of the promenades.
More First Class passengers could be carried as a result of these
alterations. The opportunity was also taken to install, among these new
cabins, two special Parlour Suites. Each of these suites would be comprised
of three interconnecting cabins and included two bedrooms, a private
bathroom, and a sitting room. Each suite would also boast a 48-foot long and
13-foot wide private promenade. Windows from within the suite’s bedrooms
and sitting rooms looked out over this space, and could be opened. The
promenades also had large square windows which overlooked the sea
beyond, and which could be opened in good weather, giving not only a private
vista, but also fresh sea air. There was nothing like these spacious,
ostentatious Parlour Suites anywhere on the Atlantic at the time, and they
would give Titanic the distinction of having the most luxurious First Class
accommodations available.
While this change might at first seem a rather simple one, it was actually
quite complicated. Not only did new plans need to be drawn up and the
location of many vital features juggled about, but then all of the changes
needed to be transferred into cold steel. The changes actually meant reconfiguring the large windows and shell plating of B Deck.
This work took nearly two months, and on its own would almost certainly
have necessitated the postponement of the maiden voyage from late January to
late March.
64 Yet there were other extensive alterations that were to be
incorporated aft on B Deck. Due to the popularity of the First Class
Restaurant on the Olympic, the decision was made to enlarge Titanic’s
Restaurant so that it could accommodate more patrons. This would have the
effect of cutting the port Second Class Promenade in half. Additionally along
the starboard side of the Restaurant, a French ‘sidewalk’ restaurant, named
the Café Parisien,
65 was slated for installation, similarly cutting the length of
the starboard Second Class Promenade. Although the expansion of the
Restaurant and the Café Parisien would shorten the Second Class
Promenades, at least Restaurant clientele would no longer have to worry
about Second Class passengers staring in at them through the windows from
their open promenade deck, as was sometimes the case on the Olympic during
her first year of service.
In for a penny, in for a pound… still further changes on B Deck were
quickly settled upon. Since more cabins had been added along the edges of the
deck, this meant that a number of cabins directly adjacent the Aft Grand
Staircase could be done without. This alteration allowed for the Entrance on
B Deck to be enlarged and converted into a special Reception Room for the
Restaurant. Very late in the fitting out of the Titanic, two more staterooms
were installed just above the Restaurant Reception Room, on A Deck’s
Entrance. These two cabins – which did not even appear on December 1911-
issued deck plans of the Titanic – were eventually numbered A-36 on the port
side, and A-37 on the starboard.66
There would be other changes, as well. On the Olympic, the First Class
Reception Room on D Deck proved enormously popular. It was agreed that
additional seating was called for, and the Entrance vestibules to port and
starboard would be reduced in size aboard Titanic to allow for an expansion
of the Reception Room. It was also agreed that the Dining Saloon, directly aft,
could be increased in capacity, from Olympic’s 53267
 to 554.68
Titanic’s Café Parisien, looking from aft to forward. A similar but non-identical room was not
installed on Olympic until after her winter 1912–1913 layup.
An artist’s rendering of the First Class Restaurant Reception Room on Titanic, another dramatic
difference between the layout of Titanic and her sister.
This photo, taken in September 1911, shows work progressing on removing the B Deck windows
along Titanic’s starboard side. Much work still lay ahead in completing the task.
During the maiden voyage of Olympic, it was also seen that there was
room for improvement forward on the Boat Deck. Titanic’s Officers’ Quarters
would be expanded forward slightly, making room for a few new First Class
cabins just forward of the Grand Staircase; this also required re-arranging the
layout of individual officers’ cabins, the Marconi rooms, the Chart Room, and
a number of other things. The shape of Titanic’s enclosed Wheelhouse, which
was located within and at the aft side of the open Bridge, was also changed
from Olympic’s arrangement. The face of Titanic’s Wheelhouse was to be
flat, as opposed to the curved face of Olympic’s. Captain Smith also
suggested adding protective windows with bull’s eye lights to the square
windows forward on the Bridge, for protection against breakage in foul
weather.
As the Olympic continued her service through the fall and winter of 1911–
1912, it was also found that her A Deck Promenade was far too exposed to
the elements. Passengers who had paid a fortune for their passage,
particularly finely-dressed ladies, had to suffer as wind howled down the
Promenade Deck. In rough conditions, things quickly deteriorated; bow spray
even shot onto the deck. Something had to be done to shelter the passengers a
bit more.
Switched at Birth?
One of the more bizarre theories surrounding the Titanic suggests that she and her older
sister Olympic were switched, and that it was the Olympic which actually sank on April
15, 1912. It is suggested that the Olympic’s collision with the cruiser HMS Hawke in
September of 1911 caused far more significant damage than White Star acknowledged;
according to the theory, this damage was so extensive that it rendered the £1.5 million-liner
beyond repair – technically, fiscally or both.
According to this theory, Olympic and Titanic were so similar that with a few
modifications to the Olympic, she could pass for the Titanic. The theory goes on to
suggest that the Olympic was sent out into the North Atlantic to be deliberately sunk under
the second ship’s name in a large-scale insurance scam.
At first blush, the theory seems to be quite intriguing, and sounds eminently plausible.
The two liners have often been called nearly-identical … the damage from the Hawke
incident to the Olympic was quite extensive. Further damage – enough to render the
Olympic irreparable – could theoretically have been concealed by White Star and Harland
& Wolff. The two sisters were together on two documented occasions after the Hawke
collision. Perhaps the White Star Line and Harland & Wolff managed to pull off the
greatest cover-up in maritime history?
When were there opportunities to carry out this switch? We know that Olympic was at
Harland & Wolff between October 6 and November 20, 1911, and again from March 2–7,
1912. We know that the switch could not have been carried out during the lengthier early
stay, since the ship that returned to service afterward was clearly the Olympic. Also, a
photograph taken on March 3, 1912 is clearly of the Olympic and not the Titanic. There is
no way that in the subsequent four days the two liners could have been switched. The
switch would have to have been made at some point later in March or the first few days of
April, 1912. No documented evidence has ever been brought to light that the two ships
again met to carry out the necessary technical alterations.
Damage to Olympic’s starboard-aft quarter from the Hawke collision.
This photo shows the Olympic in the Belfast Graving Dock on March 3, 1912.
Certain features of the ship visible in the photo prove beyond a shadow of a doubt
that this is Olympic, and that the two liners had not been ‘switched’ up to that point.
Members of the public are clearly in evidence beside the Olympic.
While some circumstantial evidence has been brought to light over the years which
could be interpreted as evidence of a switch, no absolute proof has ever been presented to
back up these claims. No ‘smoking gun’ in the form of photographic evidence, either from
the wreck or in period pictures; nothing in the way of authentic, original letters or
correspondence from White Star or Harland & Wolff personnel; no direct first-hand
reports, testimony, newspaper interviews or deathbed confessions by individuals involved in
or aware of the alleged cover-up. Not a shred of direct, ironclad evidence. Instead, support
for this theory has been based upon a string of coincidences and supposition.
At the other end of the spectrum, there is a great deal of evidence against such a
switch and cover-up. For one thing, the insurance did not cover the construction cost of
either vessel, fully equipped. It cost £1,500,000 sterling, or about $7,500,000 to build
Titanic. At the time of the accident the vessel carried insurance of £1,000,000 sterling or
about $5,000,000, the remaining risk being carried by the company’s insurance fund.
Furthermore, the technical and thus visual differences between the two sister ships
were far more numerous than has been previously allowed for. These were both external
and internal differences. The alterations to Titanic’s B Deck were far more involved both
internally and externally than they might seem at first mention.
Externally, the alterations included the widespread changes in Titanic’s window
configuration. This work originally took quite a long time on Titanic, and could not have
been duplicated on the Olympic in just a couple of days’ time; nor could it have been put
back to its original configuration on Titanic in a similarly short period. The internal
configuration of Titanic’s B Deck had also received significant alterations.
Perhaps, to save time, the internal alterations were simply skipped, proponents of the
theory might suggest. Would not this also explain why some passengers suffered from
apparent deck-letter confusion in their accounts, saying that they were on B Deck
promenades? Unfortunately for the conspiracy-theorists, many of these internal B Deck
alterations are still visible on the wreck today. Ismay’s port side suite, B-52, -54, -56 – new
and very luxurious accommodations which had not been installed on Olympic – was
thoroughly explored with ROVs in 2001.
69 The design of these new B Deck cabins did not
match either Olympic’s 1911-1912 design or many of the modifications later made to that
ship’s B Deck.
The enclosing of Titanic’s A Deck Promenades were a very late-stage alteration to
the Titanic, but this work still took a period of two or three weeks to carry out – more time
than was available to do the work when the two liners were together. Olympic never
subsequently received such a modification. There were also differences between the two
ships’ C Deck porthole arrangements, some of which never changed on the Olympic.
There is also evidence that the interiors of the two ships differed more than was
previously thought. The coloring of the ‘lino’ tiles of Titanic’s First Class Dining Saloon
and Smoking Room are known to have represented a significant departure from those on
the Olympic. These color-palette changes on the floors of such prominent rooms would
probably have necessitated color changes in the furniture, as well. There were a number of
additional variations in layout, fittings and furnishings throughout the two ships, both in
passenger and crew spaces.
A great many of the Olympic’s crew were transferred to the Titanic for that ship’s
maiden voyage. Some of these individuals reported differences between the two liners’
interior and fittings; the switch would either have had to be so complete that it fooled all of
them, or all of them subsequently remained silent on the subject. The same level of
effective deception or crew complicity would have been required of the second ship’s
crew, as well.
Additionally, for the conspiracy theory to be accurate means that everyone involved in
the switch and cover up – including nearly 15,000 laborers at Harland & Wolff, all White
Star and Harland & Wolff management personnel, and the crews of both ships – kept the
secret perfectly for the rest of their lives. Not one of the yard’s general employees shared
the secret after a few rounds down at the local pub; no one connected with White Star
ever shared the secret, even after the company went out of existence as a standalone
entity in the 1930’s; none of those proven to have been members of either crew ever spoke
up about it.
Finally, when Olympic – purportedly Titanic, after a long and successful career
masquerading as her old sister – was scrapped, her interior fittings and furnishings were
auctioned off. On the reverse side of every panel was stamped the Olympic’s original
Harland & Wolff Hull Number: 400. Clearly, every last documented item had come from
the Olympic. Unless every scrap of the Olympic’s interior had been disassembled, moved,
and reinstalled aboard the Titanic in the space of a couple of days’ time – a resoundingly
preposterous concept – then the ship that sank was definitely not the Olympic.
Despite the evidence against it, proponents of the switch theory will doubtless continue
to try and raise doubts and claim to have found ‘new evidence’ supporting their claims.
Each new claim will, in turn, have to be thoroughly investigated by technical and visual
historians and researchers, but the simple truth is that this alleged switch never
happened.
70
This photo was taken as the Olympic arrived in New York on April 10, 1912. Not
only is her forward A Deck Promenade open, but clearly visible behind the outer B
Deck windows is Olympic’s open First Class Promenade. Titanic’s B Deck in this
vicinity featured new cabins; similar but non-identical changes were not made on
Olympic for years. Clearly, the two sisters were not switched.
It was thus decided to enclose the forward half of the Promenade Deck on
the Titanic with 37-inch by 31-inch rectangular windows of the same type
which were previously installed all along Olympic and Titanic’s B Decks.
71
Each of these could be opened by means of a removable crank, which
operated a set of gears fitted into teeth on the glass pane’s frame. When the
crank was inserted into the receptacle and turned, the windows would slide
down into a protected slot between the outer side plating and an inner steel
plate. Finally, a bulkhead with a door was erected across the front end of each
side of the Promenade to prevent winds from funneling down the length of the
enclosed deck. These alterations were not made until very late in Titanic’s
fitting out. Yet, once all of these modifications had been completed on the
Titanic, they ended up increasing her gross registered tonnage over the
Olympic’s. This gave her bragging rights as ‘the largest liner in the world.’
An advertisement for the ‘Welin Quadrant’ davit fitted aboard the Olympic and Titanic. The photo
was undoubtedly taken on Olympic.
Despite the many differences between the two ships, one thing that would
be identical on both sisters was their arrangement of lifeboats. At the time that
Olympic and Titanic were taking rough shape on the drawing boards at
Harland & Wolff, the Merchant Shipping Act of 1894 was in effect for ships
under British registry. Its rules required that ships of over 10,000 tons carry
sixteen lifeboats. However, ships were growing in size, and quickly. Even
White Star’s Oceanic, which entered service in 1899, was measured at
17,272 gross tons, or nearly double the maximum tonnage considered by the
standing regulations. Lusitania and Mauretania, of 1907, more than tripled
that tonnage. Olympic and Titanic would each best that regulation by four and
a half times. There was some concern among members of the Board of Trade,
and in certain other circles, that the regulations needed to be updated in order
to more closely reflect the actual passenger capacity of newer ships.
At Harland & Wolff, in mid-1909, Alexander Carlisle fully ‘expected’
that the Board of Trade regulations for lifeboat capacity could be raised
significantly by the time the Olympic and Titanic entered service. If more
boats were required, this meant that strides would also need to be made in the
design of their storage and launching gear. Current lifeboat davits, then in use
on just about every ship on the North Atlantic, were of the radial round-bar
type; they had significant drawbacks, both for storage and launching purposes.
Because of this, Carlisle began work on an idea for new davits and storage
solutions. He then took his rough concept and submitted it to Lord Pirrie and
‘the directors of the White Star’. They believed Carlisle’s plan was a very
good one under the circumstances, and gave authorization for him to proceed
with the concept. Harland & Wolff’s own draughtsmen ‘made a rough design’
for the new davits, and Carlisle then forwarded that concept to the Welin
Quadrant Davit Company for final design and recommendation.
72
Initially the idea was for each set of davits to accommodate up to four
boats. With sixteen sets of davits, this would have allowed for up to sixty-four
lifeboats each to be installed on the Titanic and her older sister. If the
expected changes to the Board of Trade regulations did not require that many
boats, however, the davits could also accommodate two or three boats per
station, for a total of thirty-two or forty-eight boats. Welin worked up final
designs for the davits in short order.
By October of 1909, Carlisle and Pirrie had enough material on hand to
discuss that they undertook a journey to England to meet with Bruce Ismay and
Ismay’s right-hand man, Harold Sanderson. The meeting lasted all day,
73 and
during much of it, there was detailed discussion of the ships’ elaborate fittings
and decorations. The discussions were very involved, and there was a lot of
ground to cover, some ‘two or three thousand things’.
74
It had been previously
agreed that the conversation would really be between Pirrie and Ismay only,
and that neither Sanderson nor Carlisle would do much talking; this, it was
felt, would expedite the meeting’s progress greatly.
75
When the subject eventually turned to the matter of lifeboats, Pirrie
suggested that in light of uncertainty over changes to the Board of Trade
regulations, it would ‘be a good thing to make preparations for supplying the
larger number of boats’. Ismay fully agreed.76 There was no mention of
needing to carry more than sixteen lifeboats, merely that it would be good to
install davits that could handle more lifeboats if it was required of them. In
all, the conversation took five to ten minutes, and nothing specific was settled
at the time, other than a general approval for the concept.
77
In January of 1910, there was a similar meeting, with the same
participants, which lasted about four hours.
78 At this second gathering, the
subject came up again. The Board of Trade still had not come to a decision on
whether to raise the regulations, and things were still rather up in the air on
the subject. On this occasion, conversation on the subject lasted only five or
ten minutes, as Carlisle later recalled.
The discussion proceeded very similarly to the first, although this time
things were a bit more technical in nature. The advantage of using the new
Welin davits was clear: by installing them right from the start, there would be
‘no expense or trouble’ in case the Board of Trade imposed new regulations
‘at the last minute’.
79 Then the conversation turned once more to other matters.
There had never been any discussion about the number of boats that the ships
would actually carry
80 – that was being left entirely to what requirements the
Board of Trade had in place when they entered service.
This period illustration shows workers building lifeboats like those used on the Titanic.
Carlisle placed the formal order with Welin for the new davits that same
month.
81 Personally, he felt that Olympic and Titanic should carry forty-eight
boats each – or three lifeboats to each set of davits.
82 He put the plans on
paper showing as much, but later claimed that he did not recall whether he
verbalized this sentiment to anyone else at Harland & Wolff.
83 When Axel
Welin submitted the new davit design for the approval of the Board of Trade,
in March 1910, the Assistant Secretary, Marine Department – one Alexander
Boyle – noted:
The ‘Titanic’ and ‘Olympic’ are each to be fitted with 32 boats, which
are to be carried under 16 sets of double acting davits, 8 on each side.
Sixteen of the boats will be placed inboard of the others, and all the
davit frames are to be double ones.
84
Despite the certainty of this statement, the Board of Trade was still not
entirely sure what to do on the point. Up to the time of Carlisle’s departure
from Harland & Wolff on June 30, 1910, the matter had not been settled. The
Board of Trade had yet made no final decision – and would not for some time
– and so both Harland & Wolff and White Star remained in something of a
‘wait-and-see’ mode.
85 Carlisle and Pirrie could have recommended to White
Star that they go ahead and install more boats than were required, but it seems
that they showed no specific initiative in this regard. Although the builders
had ‘a very free hand’ with many matters, Carlisle did not think that they
‘could possibly have supplied any more boats to the ship without getting the
sanction and the order of the White Star Line.’86
Looking back, one must at this point wonder why there is no record of
Carlisle or others at Harland & Wolff pressing Ismay or upper management at
White Star to add more lifeboats. Carlisle suggested a possible answer when
he said that White Star had ‘to consider their other fleet and their other
steamers’.
87
In other words, if they made changes in the lifeboat capacity of
the Olympic and Titanic, then they would also have to make similar changes
to the Adriatic and the other liners in their fleet. Since the Board of Trade was
seriously considering revising then-standing regulations on the subject,
perhaps it was felt that subject was better settled by them. So, perhaps they
simply concluded that if the Board of Trade did not feel it necessary to change
the regulation, there was very little reason to suggest that White Star
implement the changes on their own – changes that would require costly
upgrades to their other steamers, as well.
At the time that Carlisle retired from Harland & Wolff, there was still
nearly a year before the maiden voyage of the Olympic, and so there were still
some months before a final decision would need to be made on how many
boats to supply. This was not the end of Carlisle’s involvement in the subject,
however. When he was working with the Merchant Shipping Advisory
Committee – which had been set up to advise the Board of Trade on whether
to increase the lifeboat regulations – the subject had by necessity come up
again.
The committee met then less than a month before Olympic made her
maiden voyage, on May 19 and 26, 1911. Even at that late moment in the
fitting out of the massive new White Star liner, the final decision on whether
her size and carrying capacity would force new lifeboat regulations had not
yet been reached. On those dates, plans of Olympic and Titanic’s lifeboat
arrangements were passed around the table, and in the course of their meeting
Carlisle flatly told the committee that he did not think the ships had enough
lifeboats.
88
 However, the committee eventually decided not to recommend that
the existing regulations be raised, submitting its report to that effect in July of
1911.
What was more, Carlisle signed off on the report, even though he thought
its recommendation incorrect. When later asked why he would sign off on the
report if he did not agree with it, Carlisle responded: ‘I do not know why I
did. I am not generally soft … But I must say I was very soft the day I signed
that.’89 Nine others signed the report as well, even though Carlisle believed
that at least one of others felt as he did.90
 The committee’s report carried great
weight with the Board of Trade, and in the end the Board allowed the standing
regulations to continue without alteration.
When all was said and done, Titanic was supplied with some twenty
boats. There were fourteen 30 foot by 9 foot wooden lifeboats, each capable
of carrying 65 persons, for a total capacity of 910; there were an additional
two 25 foot by 7 foot emergency cutters, each capable of carrying 40 persons,
with a combined capacity of 80; finally, there were four Engelhardt
collapsible boats, with a total capacity of 188 persons. These latter craft were
25.5 feet in length, with wooden bottoms and collapsible canvas sides. All
twenty lifeboats were certified to hold an aggregate total of some 1,178
persons in the event of an emergency.
91
At the same time, the Olympic was certified to carry 3,511 passengers and
crew, and the Titanic would be certified to carry some 3,547.92 The 2,369-
person disparity between Titanic’s registered capacity of passengers and
crew and the number who could be accommodated in her lifeboats has
shocked the world ever since the morning of April 15, 1912. However
shortsighted this series of decisions was, such a lifeboat complement was
simply the standard practice of the time; it was less evidence of unscrupulous
disregard for passengers’ safety than it was of simple complacency. If the
Board of Trade did not require more boats, it was felt that there was very
little reason to supply them independently.
The lifeboats themselves were actually built in May of 1911 by Harland &
Wolff, and were specifically designed with strength in mind. Their
construction was described so:
Keels of elm, stems and stern posts of oak, all clinker built of best
selected well-seasoned yellow pine, double fastened with copper
nails clinched over rooves; the timbers were of elm spaced about 9
inches apart, and the seats pitch-pine secured with galvanised iron
double knees.
93
As the sixteen primary lifeboats were being built in the Harland & Wolff boat
builder’s shop, Board of Trade Ship Surveyor William Henry Chantler was
instructed to visit the shop and inspect the boats carefully. Chantler did so on
May 30, 1911, and again ten days later.
94 He found that they were ‘well made
and of good material’,
95 and that they would hold not only the requisite sixtyfive people with ease, but that they would even hold as many as seventy.
96
 He
calculated that with a load of sixty-five individuals, the boats’ strength would
only be tested to about half of their capacity before suffering structural
failure.
97 When filled with sixty-five people and hanging from the davits
above the water, he reckoned that the stress at the boats’ gunwales would
have been about 224 lb per square inch, while pressure at the boats’ keels
would have totaled about 252 lb per square inch.
98 After noting that the
lifeboats’ capacity, air cases, and equipment were all in order in the shop, he
issued a certificate to that effect.
When these sixteen craft and the four collapsible lifeboats were brought
aboard Titanic, they were quickly mated with the new-style Welin davits in an
arrangement identical to that found on the Olympic the year before. The davits
themselves had been made of cast steel. Test pieces had been cut from them
during the manufacturing process for tensile and bending strength tests. The
results of those tests were then submitted and approved by the Board of Trade
Engineer Surveyor.
99
Massive as the boats were, as well built as they were, and as welldesigned and built as the Welin davits were, the whole setup might have
looked harebrained enough to anyone standing on the Boat Deck over sixty
feet above the water peering warily over the edge. So on Olympic, very
careful tests had been carried out to ensure that the arrangement was safe, and
would work according to plan if called upon. These tests upon Olympic’s
lifeboats were carried out in early May of 1911. On May 5, Francis
Carruthers noted that the boats …
... worked smoothly + well. The time taken to swing a boat out of the
chocks + into the water a depth of about 58 feet averaging from 1
minute 40 seconds to 1 minute 55 seconds.
100
This photo was taken in the Reciprocating Engine Room of Titanic’s younger sister Britannic on
April 29, 1914. It shows the engines in the midst of re-assembly. The photo looks aft and to
starboard and gives an excellent idea of the same process on Titanic.
This photo shows Titanic with only her forward three smokestacks in place. It was most likely taken
in December of 1911. Notice that scaffolding is still in place around the B Deck windows.
Simply lowering them into the water was not enough however. These tests had
to be far more thorough. On May 9, one of the Olympic’s lifeboats was
lowered empty into the water. Then it was filled with ‘half-hundredweight
weights
101 distributed so as to represent a load equal to about 65 people’, and
then the boat was raised and lowered six times. Not only did this prove that
the electric boat winches were capable of raising and lowering fully-laden
craft – which was the actual purpose of the test – but it also physically proved
that the boats and davits themselves were strong enough to be fully loaded
before they were raised or lowered. Harland & Wolff’s Edward Wilding was
present for the test. He said that after the weights had been removed, the boat
was still quite watertight and showed no evidence of distress at all. In his
mind, there wasn’t a shadow of a doubt that the lifeboats were strong enough
to be lowered when filled with their designated complement of passengers.
102
Similar tests would be carried out upon Titanic’s lifeboats the following
March. Francis Carruthers thought that the boats were ‘well made and
satisfactory’.
103
Meanwhile, the fitting out of Titanic had continued at a breakneck pace. In
Harland & Wolff’s engine works, the Titanic’s two massive reciprocating
engines had been fabricated, assembled, and tested. Then they were
disassembled, the components were hoisted into the hull, and the engines
were re-assembled. The low-pressure turbine was also shipped out to the
wharf, lifted aloft, and carefully lowered into place. Each of Titanic’s 29
boilers was also brought from the shops out to the wharf, where the enormous
crane picked them up and deposited them in their correct compartments for
seating. Once all of the major machinery was aboard, then the uptakes, which
would vent the combustion gases from the boilers, had to be erected. With
three uptakes leading to the operational funnels, and six boiler rooms, each
funnel would vent the smoke from two boiler rooms; like a giant jigsaw
puzzle on a nightmarish scale, the flues vented from each boiler, and then
these individual conduits converged to the primary vertical uptake above the
watertight bulkhead separating the two boiler rooms. Once these uptakes were
in place, and the surrounding deckhouses were complete, the ship’s funnels
were lowered gently into place and seated. The final funnel that was attached
to the Titanic was the after-most one. Although envisioned primarily to create
a powerful profile, it would also serve several useful ventilation functions
aboard Titanic.
Meanwhile, work continued on completing her magnificent interior
appointments. Vast open spaces on each deck had to be partitioned off into
separate areas by wooden walls. Once the basic partitions were in place, then
came the task of installing the paneling – some of it basic in crew or Third
Class quarters, some of it exquisitely ornate in Second and First Class
sections. Next there came the installation of tiling, carpeting, painting,
furniture, lights, and a nearly uncountable array of other furnishings and
fittings. The Grand Staircases were turned from basic shells into arguably two
of the most beautiful and easily recognized staircases ever placed on an ocean
liner.
In the Joiners’ Shop, workmen carefully crafted the intricate pieces of
paneling and molding, and then would take them in for installation aboard the
liner. One of the most interesting stories of something which ran amok during
the fitting out was recalled by Joiner Hugh McRoberts; he was about twenty
years of age when the event took place. One day, one of McRoberts’ fellow
joiners finished carving a piece of hardwood trim that would be installed on
the base of one of the staircase newel posts. Then he took it aboard the ship to
install it; shortly thereafter, the worker returned to the Joiners’ Shop, nearly
frantic, and told McRoberts that as he had been fitting the piece, it split. To
many today, such an unfortunate situation would not seem worth worrying
over. However the cost of damaged materials was typically deducted from
workers’ wages, meaning that the situation could be quite expensive for the
hapless worker. Together, the two men thought about the situation for a while,
and then they struck upon an idea: they took sawdust and glue and filled the
split, and then polished it in such a way that, it was hoped, it would not be
noticeable upon installation. The clever idea worked, the split piece of trim
was put back in place, and no one seems to have noticed the issue.
104
This spectacular photograph appears to have been taken in January 1912. The fourth funnel has
been put into position, and workers’ scaffolds surround both after smokestacks. Although all of
the new B Deck windows are in place, scaffolds are still in place.
This photo was taken at a very similar time to the preceding one, perhaps even on the same day.
Titanic as seen on February 3, 1912, as she entered the Belfast Graving Dock for the first time.
Coaling outriggers are visible along the outer hull between B and C Decks. Smoke is billowing
from the No. 3 funnel.
The Titanic’s maiden voyage was originally scheduled for Wednesday,
March 20, 1912, nearly ten months from the date of her launch, and under
ordinary circumstances, it would not have been an issue for Harland & Wolff
to complete on schedule. After all, this sort of project – turning the Titanic
into a finished liner – was not unprecedented for Harland & Wolff. Not only
had they built many grand ocean liners, but they had also finished the nearlyidentical interior spaces of the Olympic just a year before. So in this
particular instance, one might have expected things to go more easily for the
yard than they had even on the Olympic. However, Titanic’s older sister was
about to throw two cogs into the gears at the shipyard.
This photo is of Olympic’s stern props, as seen in October or November of 1912, during the onset
of her 1912–1913 refit. Often used to portray Titanic’s propeller configuration, it now seems
certain that Titanic’s center prop was 3-bladed, rather than 4-bladed.
Titanic (right) has been removed from the Graving Dock, and now sits astern of Olympic (left).
Olympic was still in the Graving Dock on March 3, as seen in the photo on page 38.
March 6, 1912: Olympic (right) and Titanic (left) are together at the Harland & Wolff shipyard.
Titanic in the Belfast Graving Dock on March 6, 1912. Steam is emitting from her after funnels,
indicating signs of life within the vessel. All 16 lifeboats are in position. The paint work is still
incomplete, and fresh paint is being applied to the hull below the aft Well and Poop Decks. This
photograph was taken from the Olympic.
This photograph was taken on or after March 8, 1912. Titanic has been returned to the wharf. It
shows that the scaffolding has been removed from B Deck. A new layer of paint is being applied to
the hull starting from the bow and moving aft.
On September 20, 1911, at the beginning of the Olympic’s fifth voyage,
she was involved in the first major incident of her career; it caused a delay in
the fitting out of Titanic. While clearing Southampton waters, with over 1,300
passengers aboard, she encountered the 7,350-ton Admiralty cruiser HMS
Hawke. The courses of the two ships converged until they were steaming
parallel with one another. The Hawke began to overtake the Olympic on the
liner’s starboard side. Then the Olympic’s speed was increased to sixteen
knots. As the engines ramped up to meet this new order, the suction between
the starboard side of the Olympic and the port side of the Hawke increased.
The result was startling: quite suddenly, the bow of the Hawke veered to port,
right toward the enormous ship. On the Bridge of the Hawke, her commander
ordered the helmsman to port the helm, to turn his ship away to starboard. But
the burbled waters effectively jammed the helm of the cruiser, and before
anything else could be done, she slammed into the liner’s aft-starboard
quarter. The Hawke’s reinforced bow was crumpled like tinfoil; two huge
gashes were cut in the side of the Olympic, one above the waterline and one
below. Damage was also done to the liner’s starboard propeller as debris in
the water was sucked through the still-turning blades. Two of the Olympic’s
watertight compartments began to flood immediately, and her starboard
propeller shaft was badly mangled.
Amazingly, neither vessel was in danger of sinking after this shocking
event, and remarkably, nobody was injured. The Hawke limped away to
Portsmouth for repairs, and the Olympic anchored in Osborne Bay off the Isle
of Wight. Unable to continue the voyage to New York, she off-loaded her
passengers by tender and her crew made temporary damage repairs through
the course of that night. The following day, she returned to Southampton where
Harland & Wolff’s local works carried out still further temporary repairs.
Once these had been completed, Olympic was guided cautiously back to
Belfast, and Harland & Wolff’s main shipyards, where full repairs were made
between October 6 and November 20. In the course of this work, Titanic’s
starboard propeller shaft was utilized to help return Olympic to service
quickly; a replacement shaft for the second liner would have to be fabricated
as her fitting out continued.
At this time, Titanic was still being fitted out at the Alexandra Wharf.
Upon Olympic’s arrival, she was placed in the Graving Dock, and then the
two vessels swapped location, with Olympic entering the drydock. While
Olympic was being repaired, work on the Titanic was nearly halted, but the
pace picked back up when Olympic resumed her schedule. The Olympic again
returned to Harland & Wolff on March 1 because she had thrown a blade from
her port propeller. This repair took six days, making an already bad situation
worse by causing further delay in work on Titanic. Additionally, it seems that
in order to return Olympic to service more quickly, one of the blades from
Titanic’s port propeller was utilized to replace the lost blade from the
Olympic.
105
On March 6, the Titanic was placed in the Thompson drydock again, in
order to give the Olympic enough room to swing around to make her departure
and subsequent return to service. Carruthers took the opportunity to make a
third inspection of the Titanic’s lower hull to ensure its integrity, and found it
quite satisfactory.
106
In both of these incidents, White Star felt it was more important to have
the Olympic back on the Atlantic again than it was to proceed with work on
the Titanic without interruption. Indeed, these two delays caused Harland &
Wolff to fall so far behind on the Titanic that they had to postpone her
delivery. White Star, in turn, had to postpone the ship’s maiden voyage from
March 20, 1912 to the date originally scheduled for the start of the liner’s
second round trip voyage: Wednesday, April 10, 1912.107 Even so, it was still
going to be a close shave, and everyone knew it.
It was into this chaos that three of the Titanic’s senior officers blithely
steamed. All three – Chief Officer William Murdoch, First Officer Charles H.
Lightoller, and Second Officer David Blair – arrived together. These ‘three
very contented chaps’ had taken ‘the midnight boat for Belfast’, arriving on
March 20, 1912. They would take the coming days to familiarize themselves
with the new ship.108 Despite the frenzy surrounding their new charge, there is
no doubt that they glowed with pride that they, out of the entire officer corps
of the White Star Line, had been chosen to crew the flagship of the line – even
if she was at that point a chaotic and incomplete mess. These three officers
knew each other, even though they were arriving from three different ships.
Lightoller had previously served with both Murdoch and Blair.
109
Lightoller was quick-thinking and cool-headed. He was a good ‘company
man’ and an able officer who had already enjoyed a wide and varied career.
Serving on four-masted barques, clipper ships, and other sailing vessels early
on, he had already survived being shipwrecked. For a time he had even left
the sea to prospect for gold in the Yukon, and to work as a cowboy in Alberta,
Canada. He had put in time on the White Star Line’s Australian run, and
among other ships, had served aboard the Medic, Majestic and the Oceanic.
He had met his future wife while serving on the Majestic.
110
Lightoller had been transferred to the Oceanic in 1907, initially serving as
her Third Officer. His performance aboard that vessel allowed him to be
promoted from Third to Second Officer, and eventually to First Officer. In
March of 1911, while serving as Oceanic’s First Officer, Lightoller had been
aboard when the liner’s foremast was struck by lightning in a gale. He was
standing on the Bridge at the time, and had just narrowly avoided being
seriously injured by falling splinters.
111
Charles Lightoller, c. 1919.
William Murdoch in a photo probably dating to June of 1911, when he served aboard Olympic.
Herbert Pitman, Third Officer of the Titanic. At the time of the White Star liner’s maiden voyage,
Pitman was the only one of the senior officers sporting facial hair other than Captain Smith.
This photo shows Fourth Officer Joseph Boxhall between the years of 1919 and 1923.
Fifth Officer Harold Lowe.
When he wasn’t dodging lightning bolts and mast splinters, Lightoller had
a rather playful side and something of a penchant for practical jokes. Playing
pranks on his fellow officers – while off-duty, of course – had nearly gotten
him into trouble on more than one occasion in the past. So did his playful side.
For example, while on the Oceanic, with the Bridge decking wet and the ship
rolling, he liked to amuse himself ‘by trying to slide from one side of the
bridge to the other, without touching anything’. This particular diversion had
been cut short one day when the Captain, Herbert James Haddock, showed up
unexpectedly.
112
There would be no sliding across the bridge on the Titanic, that was for
sure. Although Lightoller had loved the Oceanic, this transfer was a
tremendous promotion for him; every officer in the fleet wanted a post on the
newest ship – she was almost three times the gross tonnage of the Oceanic.
When he turned 38 years old on March 30, 1912, he was still trying to find his
way around the behemoth:
I was thoroughly familiar with pretty well every type of ship afloat,
from a battleship and a barge, but it took me fourteen days before I
could with confidence find my way from one part of that ship to
another by the shortest route.
113
Lightoller’s old shipmate and friend, 39-year-old William Murdoch, was a
happily married man. Not long before, he had shaved the large mustache that
he had previously sported, apparently at his wife’s prodding. Murdoch – who
had served as a Lieutenant in the Royal Navy Reserve – hailed from
Dalbeattie, and was the Titanic’s only Scottish officer. The Chief Officer had
served on sailing vessels, as well as the Australian run aboard White Star’s
Medic and Runic. He then plied his trade on the Atlantic aboard, among
others, the Arabic, Oceanic, Adriatic and finally the Olympic.
A sensible and well-seasoned officer who was a quick thinker, Murdoch
had proven himself willing and able to take action in a crisis on previous
occasions. In 1903, while serving as Second Officer of the Arabic, he had
narrowly averted a collision with another vessel by countermanding the helm
orders of a superior officer, shoving the Quartermaster out of the way, and
taking control of the ship himself.
114 As he was just transferring from the
Olympic, Titanic’s size probably did not impress him; however, it would
make sense that his experience on Olympic came in handy in assisting
Lightoller and Blair to familiarize themselves with the ship, as he was the
only one of the three with experience on the class.
Thirty-seven-year-old Second Officer David Blair had transferred from
the Dominion liner Teutonic.
115 Teutonic was a legendary ex-White Star liner
which had been in service since August of 1889. One of the last White Star
ships built for speed, she had the ability to steam at over twenty knots. Yet, at
nearly twenty-three years of age, she was showing her years, and her waning
prestige on the Atlantic had prompted the IMM internal transfer from White
Star to Dominion. Blair must have been dumbstruck at the upgrade Titanic
represented from his previous ship. Teutonic had grossed only some 9,984
tons, whereas Titanic was over four-and-a-half times that size. The older
vessel was only 582 feet in length, but Titanic bested her by three hundred
feet. The scale of the Titanic must have been hard for Blair to grasp, but he
seemed quite pleased at the promotion.
At noon on Wednesday, March 27, 1912 – a week after the three senior
officers had stepped aboard, and precisely two weeks from the scheduled
start of the ship’s maiden voyage from Southampton – the Titanic’s four junior
officers arrived in Belfast. Theirs had been a rather grueling trip, leaving
Liverpool at 10:00 p.m. the previous night for the cross-Channel voyage. The
group of men made their way aboard the great liner and immediately reported
to Chief Officer Murdoch.
116 They were young, but they were already quite
experienced and they were full of promise.
There was 34-year-old Third Officer Herbert J. Pitman. Pitman, though
rather short in stature, cut an imposing figure with his large mustache. He was
also an extremely capable officer with some sixteen years of experience at
sea. Like several of the other officers, he had served on vessels in the less
prestigious Australian and Japanese routes. He had previously served aboard
the White Star vessels Delphic and Majestic, and was just transferring from
the Oceanic, where he had served as her Fourth Officer.
117
Twenty-eight-year-old Fourth Officer Joseph G. Boxhall had already been
at sea almost thirteen years, having joined a steel-hulled barque with the
William Thomas Line in 1899. He had entered service with the White Star
Line in late 1907,118 and in the preceding years had become another veteran of
the Australian run, also serving on White Star’s Oceanic and Arabic. He
would prove a valuable officer during Titanic’s maiden trip. Pitman and
Boxhall were both single.
Sixth Officer James Moody.
Doctor William O’Loughlin (right) seated with Captain Smith (left) on the Olympic.
This very rare photo of Harold Bride in his Junior Marconi Operator’s uniform was most likely
taken when he first joined service with the Marconi Company.
Jack Phillips.
Twenty-nine-year-old Fifth Officer Harold G. Lowe had been at sea since
he ran away from home at age 14. Although born in Wales, his mother was
from Liverpool, England, and his father was also from England. While Lowe
could speak Welsh fluently, when he spoke English he did not have a trace of
Welsh accent.
119 The young officer was new to the North Atlantic service, as
he had served on the Australian run aboard the Belgic and Tropic prior to his
transfer.
120
Lowe was a no-nonsense man, a self-described teetotaler, and he was
occasionally a little strong with his language.
121 He was still young, but his
youth and the experience he had already gained in his years at sea were two of
his best assets, making him a most promising officer. Lowe felt like something
of an outsider aboard the Titanic, as he was the only officer who did not know
and who had not previously served with any of the liner’s other officers.
122
Sixth Officer James P. Moody also had a lot of promise. The youngest of
the officers, he was twenty-four years old, and like Pitman, Boxhall, and
Lowe, was still single. Moody had only received his Master’s License the
previous April, but he had a broad base of knowledge and decades of
experience to look up to in his senior officers and Captain. Among others, he
had previously served on sailing vessels, on the Navy training vessel HMS
Conway, and the Oceanic. He would certainly gain much experience on this
voyage, and was no doubt very pleased – in light of his junior status – to have
been posted to the line’s flagship.
A number of other crewmen were also beginning to arrive on board the
Titanic. Among these was 62-year-old Ship’s Surgeon Dr William
O’Loughlin, who signed on March 24. O’Loughlin, who was from Tralee,
County Kerry, Ireland had been at sea since he was 21 years of age. He had
studied at Trinity College in Dublin, and looked very distinguished with
graying hair and large mustache.
At some point in early 1912, Captain Smith had met up with O’Loughlin
and another famed White Star Ship’s Surgeon, J. C. H. Beaumont, at the South
Western Hotel in Southampton. At the time, Smith was aware that he would be
transferring to command the Titanic on her maiden voyage. During the meeting
of these three men, O’Loughlin had mentioned that at this stage of his life, he
‘was tired’ of ‘changing from one ship to another’. In response, Captain Smith
had good-naturedly ‘chided’ O’Loughlin ‘for being lazy, and told him to pack
up and come with him.’123
O’Loughlin was much loved by just about everyone who knew him.
124
It
was said that he ‘regarded life with a twinkle in his eye but kept clear of the
whirlpools’. He was so engaging that many of the stewardesses he worked
with wondered how he had managed to remain a bachelor all those years. His
typical response to the question was given in his lilting Irish brogue: ‘Sure,
haven’t I worn all the knees out of me pants proposing to ladies and sure they
won’t have anything to do with me at all.’125
Two others who arrived early aboard the Titanic worked, not for the
White Star Line or Harland & Wolff, but for the Marconi International Marine
Company.
126 John George ‘Jack’ Phillips, aged 25, had been in service with
the company since the summer of 1906, sailing on ships such as the Teutonic,
Lusitania and Mauretania before taking a land-based station in 1908. He had
returned to the sea in late 1911, and finally in March of 1912 he was tapped to
report to the Titanic at Belfast to serve as her Senior Operator.
Phillips met his assistant for the first time in Belfast when the two men
converged on the mighty new liner.
127 That assistant was Harold Sydney
Bride, then aged 22. Bride was rather a newcomer to the Marconi
International Marine Company, having received his first posting only in July
of 1911. However, in that time, he had managed to make three round-trips to
Brazil, one to Philadelphia, and two to New York aboard the Lusitania.
128
Both men must have been enthralled with their new ship as they boarded
her for the first time. The shipyard was an absolute hive of activity … the
liner was still clearly incomplete … workmen scrambled around trying to get
the ship prepared in time for her departure. The sights, the sounds, the
absolute kinetic energy of those final days in Belfast – this was the
introduction Phillips and Bride had to the Titanic.
They were very likely also enthralled by the Marconi equipment that they
were going to be working with, a 5kw generating set with a rotary spark gap.
As far as Marconi sets went, this was quite a space-age design, far advanced
over the older 1½-kw sets.
129 Whereas most sea-going Marconi sets of the
period produced an electric rasping sound as it formed the ‘dot’ and ‘dash’ of
Morse code, Titanic’s set actually produced a musical tone. This musical
tone, or voice, was not entirely unique at the time; the Olympic, although
originally slated to receive a lesser system, had in the end been endowed with
a similar set.
130
 Even so, it was quite a rare installation.
Just as automobile enthusiasts love nothing more than to open their
vehicles’ engine compartments and discuss every little feature with fellow
aficionados, and train buffs compare the vital statistics of various
locomotives, so the Marconi wireless sets were to enthusiasts of the time.
When the Lusitania had made her maiden voyage just four-and-a-half years
before, one newspaper reporter was able to pop in to the Wireless Shack; his
report made for a near adventure story. Yet, the technology was rapidly
advancing, and there were new features to fuss over and be enthralled by.
Phillips and Bride must have gazed in open astonishment at their new
instrument.
The set’s guaranteed daytime range was conservatively placed at 350
miles, but it was thought that it would manage more, perhaps up to 500 miles.
Beyond that, it was expected that at night, when the atmospherics were more
conducive to transmissions, the set’s range would be far more impressive,
with reception from high-powered stations up to 1,500 miles away.
131 The
concept of contacting people in far-flung corners of the globe in real time was
still a novel one, and no one knew that they were on the ‘cutting edge’ of
technology better than Phillips and Bride.
The Marconi rooms were conveniently located on the Boat Deck, just
astern of the uptake for the No. 1 funnel, within the structure of the Officers’
Quarters. The shipboard domain of these two men consisted of three separate
rooms: the actual Marconi office, where the key was located, sat amidships; a
door on the starboard side of the operations center led to their sleeping
quarters,
132 which had an upper and a lower berth, a settee, and other typical
fittings; on the port side of the Marconi Room, through another door, was the
Silent Room, which contained the alternator and the motor and spark gap. This
room had special insulation so that the noise from the sparks wouldn’t disturb
anyone nearby.
133
Once Phillips and Bride had become familiar with their suite’s general
layout, the next order of business would have been to set up house. Since the
Titanic was to have a 24-hour constant watch, it was up to the two operators
to decide how they would break their duties up to achieve that. Four watches
of six hours each would cover the complete period.134
In the end they decided
that during the night, Phillips would keep watch from 8:00 p.m. through 2:00
a.m. Bride would take the next six hours on watch, from 2:00-8:00 a.m.
135
During the day, however, they decided to keep the schedule a little more
pliable, relieving each other ‘to suit each other’s convenience’
136 while still
dividing the watches fairly.
Until the Titanic put to sea, however, things were far more chaotic, far
more hectic. While the ship was at Belfast, the operators’ time as well as the
rooms housing the Marconi set were not their own. Marconi Company
engineers were on hand, setting up the complicated equipment in those final
days before the ship was to depart Belfast. Numerous tests needed to be
performed, and adjustments made, for the equipment to work properly when
the liner took to sea for the first time.
137 Fortunately, the two men seemed to
get along very amiably – something not always guaranteed between
workmates, but particularly valued in such a close-quarters working
environment – and they quickly started to become friends.
Meanwhile, inspections were being made to ensure that the ship was
thoroughly equipped. Chief Officer Murdoch ordered Fifth Officer Lowe and
Sixth Officer Moody to inspect the starboard side lifeboats and to make sure
their equipment was complete; he ordered Third Officer Pitman and Fourth
Officer Boxhall to do likewise with the port side lifeboats.
138
It is likely that
this was done as a preliminary to the formal inspections, which would be
performed by Board of Trade Inspectors such as Francis Carruthers, among
several others.
First Officer Lightoller personally accompanied Carruthers through some
of his surveys.
139 A few days before the ship was finished, Carruthers
inspected the bulkheads for watertightness.
140 Lightoller also went through the
watertight bulkheads, although he later could not remember whether it was
with Carruthers or whether he did so independent of the Board of Trade
Surveyor.
141 Lightoller was also with Carruthers as the Surveyor formally
examined the lifeboats, had them swung out, lowered down and hauled up,
and as he thoroughly scrutinized their equipment. These tests were probably
very similar to those Carruthers had performed on the Olympic the previous
year. Carruthers also had the 15¾-ton142 auxiliary anchor – normally stowed
in a well at the tip of the Forecastle – hooked up to the crane, swung out and
back again in order to test the entire setup.143
On March 25, 1912, 51-year-old Herbert James Haddock took command
and became Titanic’s first official Captain. Haddock had just transferred over
from the Oceanic, which he had commanded since April 1907. As such, he
was First Officer Lightoller’s previous commanding officer.
144 Haddock had
also commanded the Cedric, Britannic,
145 Germanic and Celtic for White
Star. His tenure as Captain of the Titanic was to be short-lived, however, as
he would soon be taking command of Titanic’s sister Olympic. His time
aboard was doubtless spent familiarizing himself with the sheer scale of the
Olympic-class ships – his former command, Oceanic, had less than forty per
cent of the Olympic and Titanic’s interior registered space.
Another individual who was very much present as the Titanic neared
completion was her first Chief Engineer, 50-year-old Joseph Bell.
146
Although Bell did not formally sign on to the ship until the morning of April 2,
it was only natural that he was boarding the Titanic as her Chief Engineer. Not
only had he overseen the installation of Olympic’s powerplant, but he had then
served on Olympic as Chief Engineer during her maiden voyage. During that
early period with Olympic, Robert Fleming – another of White Star’s senior
engineers
147 – was at Bell’s side, gaining experience with the Olympic and
getting ‘accustomed to her’.
148 Then Bell had returned to Belfast, and Robert
Fleming was promoted to Chief Engineer on the Olympic. Back in Belfast,
Bell was present as the Titanic’s own engines – nearly identical to her older
sister’s – were constructed and assembled at the yard Engine Works, then
disassembled, and finally installed and tested in their final positions aboard
Titanic.
149 Very likely, Bell was planning to return to Belfast after Titanic’s
maiden voyage, in order to oversee the Britannic’s engines as they were
constructed and installed.
Other crew members were also joining the ship. Among them were a
number who would not only sail during the trials and brief trip on to
Southampton, but who would continue with the ship on her first voyage to
New York. A number of these signed on in Southampton on March 25, with
the understanding that they would muster at Southampton’s West Station at
2:30 the following afternoon for passage to Belfast. Among those listed from
this group were Quartermaster Arthur J. Bright, Lookout Frederick Fleet,
Lamp Trimmer Samuel Hemming, Lookout Archie Jewell, Quartermaster
Alfred Olliver, George Rowe – although listed as a Lookout for this brief trip,
he would eventually serve as a Quartermaster during the maiden voyage –
Purser Reginald Barker, Chief Steward Andrew Latimer, Steward Edward
Wheelton, Gymnasium Instructor Thomas W. McCawley, and many, many
more.
In amongst this group of Titanic’s first crew forming at Belfast was 33-
year-old Deck Engineer Thomas Millar. Millar had worked at Harland &
Wolff, and had assisted in the construction of both the Olympic and Titanic.
His wife had died just recently, however, and he had left Harland & Wolff for
work with IMM and the White Star Line.
150 As the Titanic was nearing
completion, Millar was planning to find a new home in America before
having his two young sons sent over, so that they could all begin a new life.
Just a few days before the ship’s trials, Millar had taken his boys on a tour of
the great Titanic. When the boys’ Uncle Bob, with them for the tour, had
scoffed that the ship was just too big, Thomas had retorted: ‘Nonsense, she’s
as safe as houses, in fact they say she’s unsinkable.’151
Millar’s tour must have been carried out amidst quite a chaotic scene as
work continued aboard the great ship. So much yet needed to be done before
she would be ready to sail on her maiden voyage. Fortunately, work on
enclosing the A Deck Promenade was finished … so too were most of the
various pieces of equipment in the Gymnasium … the engines were
operational … most of the major decorations and wall coverings were in
place. Yet paint crews still swarmed over the ship, touching up her internal
and external paint … carpet still needed to be laid, and trimmed … many light
fixtures were not yet installed. The story was the same with draperies, many
of the mattresses, the linens, the china and cutlery … even the ship’s Steinway
pianos did not arrive until mid-March.
152
It must have seemed that Thomas Andrews was needed at all times
everywhere to help sort things out. Clearly not everything could be finished at
Belfast, and much would need to be done in the days before the ship sailed
from Southampton. There must have been concerns within some circles at
Harland & Wolff over whether everything was going to come together in time
on this, the Firm’s greatest accomplishment.
In June 1911, prior to her maiden voyage, the Olympic had made a
stopover in Liverpool, England, the location of White Star’s Company
headquarters. For years, Liverpool had been the primary English terminus of
White Star ships, as it was for the prestigious Cunard Company. However, in
1907, White Star had transferred its terminus to Southampton, which was far
more favorable for large ships because of its double tide and the lack of a
shallow bar at the entrance of Southampton water. This shift had left many in
Liverpool disgruntled, and Olympic’s stop at her registered, if only honorary,
home port had been part of an attempt to ease public relations. A stop on the
part of Titanic would doubtless have been intended to have the same effect;
due to the terrific crush of time, however, this post-trials stop was canceled.
As the date set for the trials to commence – Monday, April 1, 1912 –
arrived, much work still needed to be done. However, the important things
were complete, and the trials could proceed as scheduled. On Saturday,
March 30, 62-year-old Captain Edward John Smith, White Star’s senior
Captain and unofficial Commodore,
153
left the Olympic at Southampton, and
set out for a quick trip up to Belfast. He arrived there in time to take command
of the new Titanic on Monday, April 1. Captain Haddock’s ‘command’ of the
Titanic – more of an on-paper position since the ship did not move under her
own power while he was in charge – had spanned less than a week. After he
was relieved, Haddock rushed down to Southampton to take Smith’s place on
the Olympic and command that liner for her next departure on Wednesday,
April 3, 1912. When Captain Smith left the Olympic, so did quite a number of
that ship’s officers and crew, well over two hundred of them, all told.
The Titanic’s officers held Captain Smith in very high esteem. Smith, a
long-term White Star veteran, had been a Commander in the Royal Navy
Reserve, and had served in the Boer War in South Africa. As such, he had
received an Admiralty warrant that allowed the ships he commanded,
including Titanic, to fly the blue ensign of the Royal Navy Reserve, rather
than the red ensign of the merchant marine. During his career Smith had
served on or had commanded, among other ships, the Republic, Coptic,
Majestic, Baltic, Adriatic and Olympic. Second Officer Lightoller had served
with him for many years, including a stint on the Majestic. He described the
Captain as follows:
‘E.J.’ as he was familiarly and affectionately known, was quite a
character in the shipping world. Tall, full whiskered, and broad. At
first sight you would think to yourself, ‘Here’s a typical Western
Ocean Captain. Bluff, hearty, and I’ll bet he’s got a voice like a
foghorn.’ As a matter of fact, he had a pleasant, quiet voice and
invariable smile. A voice he rarely raised above a conversational tone
– not to say he couldn’t; in fact, I have often heard him bark an order
that made a man come to himself with a bump. He was a great
favorite, and a man any officer would give his ears to sail under.
154
By 4:00 a.m. on the morning of Monday, April 1, the firemen who were to
bring the liner’s new furnaces to life boarded and set to their task. Seamen
engaged for the trial trip arrived by 6:00 a.m.
155 The trials were set to
commence at 10:00 a.m. However, as the day began, it was clear that the
weather was not going to cooperate, with high winds and a heavy chop to the
water. It was prudently decided not to risk maneuvering the Titanic’s immense
bulk about the confines of shallow waters under such circumstances. It was
said:
Hundreds of spectators made the journey to the new deep water wharf
where the Titanic is lying, with the object of witnessing the departure,
and if disappointed at not seeing her leave, they had the satisfaction of
obtaining a good view of the vessel, which presented a magnificent
spectacle.
156
April 1, 1912: Titanic’s trials are delayed due to high winds. This photograph shows that her port
side white paintwork had only just been re-touched.
Proud Harland & Wolff employees posing beside the hull of the Olympic in 1911. Most of these
same individuals would have been involved in completing Titanic the following year.
The stokehold crew and seamen were released for the remainder of the day.
According to the terms of their sign-on agreement, they would be paid 5s each
per day for any unforeseen detention in Belfast, starting from midnight of
Monday, April 1. Eventually, the spectators who had turned out to see the
ship’s departure dispersed. It was hoped by everyone that on the following
morning, the weather would be better and the trials could be carried out.
The weather the next day, Tuesday, April 2, indeed proved a marked
improvement. Yet again, the ship’s crewmen were aboard early – the firemen
by 4:00 a.m., and the seamen by 6:00 a.m. In the early hours of that morning, it
was rapidly becoming clear that with the weather’s moderation, the greatlyanticipated event would actually come to pass. In the ship’s galleys, the
victualling staff was beginning to prepare the first meal that would be served
aboard the liner in open water. The ship’s machinery was humming, as if in
anticipation of taking to the sea for the first time.
Workmen from Harland & Wolff were still aboard that morning, yet
engaged in the task of finishing the ship. Thirty-three-year-old First Class
Dining Saloon Steward Frederick Dent Ray, who had just transferred from the
Olympic, was wandering the corridors between the First Class staterooms on
C Deck. He happened across a carpet layer installing carpeting in one of the
staterooms. Noticing some small remnants in the corner, he asked the man if
he could bring a piece home with him. Apparently, the piece was too small to
be of use elsewhere, and the workman agreed. Ray took a scrap and brought it
back to his home in Reading.
157
Other details of the ship’s fittings were also incomplete. It would seem
that as the ship prepared to leave Belfast on her trials, the iconic clock due to
be installed on the wall paneling of the top half-landing of the Forward Grand
Staircase was still absent. According to Charles Wilson – carver of the
central portion of the ‘Honour and Glory Crowning Time’ panel on Olympic,
and a similar panel on Titanic – there was not enough time to set the clock,
and a mirror was temporarily substituted in its place.
158
It is thus quite
possible that the clock still had not been installed when the ship left
Southampton on her maiden voyage.
159 Work on the ship’s as-yet incomplete
details would continue through the trials and, if they were successful, the trip
to Southampton and her subsequent stay in that port prior to the maiden
voyage.
The weather on April 2 shows a marked improvement. Titanic’s funnels belch large quantities of
coal smoke. The liner is about to begin her trials, but the boarding ramp has not yet been
removed.
With the boarding ramp now taken away, Titanic is about to venture from her place of birth for the
first time.
Thomas Andrews was certainly busy that Tuesday morning, since he had
been assigned to head up the builder’s delegation during the trials. It was a
weighty responsibility, but one that he was eminently well-qualified to handle.
He was accompanied by Edward Wilding and a contingent of yard employees,
all working to finish and test every possible feature of the ship and ensure that
all of her systems were working flawlessly. Foremost among these employees
of Harland & Wolff were eight men who would be accompanying Andrews on
the maiden voyage. A special ‘guarantee group’ was typically sent with new
deliveries on their maiden voyage, to make sure everything was working
efficiently, and to see if any improvements could be made with the ships.
Andrews would be heading up this group during the trip to Southampton, and
on the subsequent maiden voyage; including him, the group would total nine
men.
Andrews was booked in First Class, and would occupy cabin A-36, on
the port side of the aft Grand Staircase’s top level. Also booked as First Class
passengers were 40-year-old Chief Draughtsman Roderick Robert Crispin
Chisholm160 and 29-year-old Electrical Department Assistant Manager
William Henry Marsh Parr. The remaining men were booked in Second Class.
They were 21-year-old Apprentice Joiner William H. Campbell; 21-year-old
Apprentice Fitter Alfred ‘Alfie’ Fleming Cunningham; 37-year-old Foreman
Fitter Anthony ‘Artie’ W. Frost; 39-year-old Fitter Robert Knight; 18-year-old
Apprentice Plumber Francis ‘Frank’ Parkes; and 18-year-old Apprentice
Electrician Ennis Hastings Watson. No matter what class the members of this
group were booked in, they would have free reign of the entire ship throughout
the crossing. Whether old or young, each of these individuals showed great
promise within Harland & Wolff, for being selected as a member of the
‘guarantee group’ was a very special privilege.
Amongst those who did not board the ship that morning were Bruce Ismay
and Lord Pirrie, the men who had first imagined the concept of the Olympic
and Titanic, and who were ultimately unable to attend. Ismay was busy with
other company matters, while Pirrie was having health issues at the time. As
the final personnel climbed the gangplank, the time to depart had arrived. At
around six o’clock that morning, the Titanic cast off and was shepherded
down Victoria Channel and the Belfast Lough by a bevy of escorting tugs.
Belfast was a city accustomed to early mornings, and just as on the
previous day many spectators turned out to see the liner off. They lined the
banks of the Lough to watch, and photograph, the great ship as she ventured
from the nest for the first time. Once the liner had entered the open water of
the Irish Sea, the tugs cast off, and it was time for the Titanic to be put to the
test.
The trials would run through the remainder of the morning and the
afternoon. They would not be as long in duration as those of the Olympic the
year before. This was in part because of the shortness of time, and in part
because it was rightly expected that she would behave nearly the same as her
older sister. Even so, the tests had to meet certain requirements so that Board
of Trade Surveyor Carruthers could sign off on her passenger certificate. He
later said:
The trials consisted of running from slow up to full speed ahead,
manoeuvring with the turbine cut out, going astern and swinging the
vessel at full speed ahead with the helm hard over to test the steering
gear.
161
Carruthers was not the only one paying attention to the results of the various
tests. Edward Wilding of Harland & Wolff recalled that the ship made two
full turning circles, one of them with both engines at ‘Full Ahead’ and the
helm thrown to starboard, turning the ship’s bow to port. In the second circle,
the helm was put to port, and the ship’s starboard engine was then reversed
and put ‘Full Astern’ to aid the maneuver. The ship entered each of these two
turns at speeds between 18 and 20 knots.
Tugs shepherd the enormous liner through the confined waters of the Victoria Channel. The ship is
moving northeast, and will soon reach less restricted waters.
Titanic steaming through the Belfast Lough.
A splendid broadside view of the liner in the Lough.
The ship threads a carefully marked route through the Lough as she moves toward open water.
Further circles were also made at various speeds under starboard helm, at
11, 19½ knots, and 21½ knots. A full-stop test was also conducted. With the
helm amidships, and the ship moving forward at 18 knots, both engines were
reversed. It took the liner 3 minutes and 15 seconds to come to a complete
stop, covering just over 3,000 feet in the process. Although this may seem like
a positively enormous distance, the reality is that in accomplishing this,
Titanic proved that she was able to stop in less than three-and-a-half times
her own length; this is quite a swift reaction for a liner weighing over fifty
thousand tons and slicing through the water at high speed.162 Fifth Officer
Harold G. Lowe thought that the Titanic ‘behaved splendidly and maneuvered
very well’ throughout the course of her trials.
163
It took hours to carry these tests out. In the middle of the tests, lunch was
served in the Dining Saloon. The menus were printed bearing the White Star
Line house flag, as well as the logo of White Star’s parent company, the
Oceanic Steam Navigation Company. Despite the fact that the ship had not yet
been formally handed over to White Star, it was clear that she would be.
Options on the menu included salmon, sweetbreads, roast chicken, lamb with
mint sauce, baked ham, and a variety of vegetables, sides and desserts.
Doubtless those who attended the meal enthusiastically chatted about the
liner’s performance, comparing her results with those of other ships, including
her sister, trying to guess how she would perform during the post-lunch tests.
This meal really gave a glimpse of what life for First Class passengers would
be like on her maiden voyage. It was the first hint of what lay just ahead on the
horizon.
Throughout the day, Jack Phillips and Harold Bride had been virtually
sequestered in their Marconi cabin. They were busy putting the liner’s
Marconi installation through its paces.
164 The Marconi engineers had only just
finished with it before the ship was ready to leave, yet the results they
obtained were very good. As the two men felt the great liner being
maneuvered and tested in various ways beneath their feet, they were in
communication with the Liverpool and Malin Head wireless stations.
165
 Bride
felt that their own tests were very satisfactory, and the set worked very
well.
166
Having passed her trials with flying colors, the Titanic returned to the
Belfast Lough at about 6:00 p.m. that evening,
167 arriving in Belfast at about
7:00 p.m., or shortly after dusk.
168 Board of Trade Surveyor Carruthers was
thoroughly pleased with her performance, and after testing both the port and
starboard anchors and hauling them back up again to ensure the machinery
worked as intended, he granted her 12-month certification as a passengercarrying vessel.
169
What came next was a bittersweet moment for everyone from Harland &
Wolff who had worked so hard to bring this great ship to life. Many would not
be proceeding with the ship to Southampton, and for these individuals, the
time came to bid workmates, friends, and the ship herself a fond farewell.
Thomas Andrews was undoubtedly pleased with the liner’s
accomplishment that day, but he was sad to be leaving behind his family; his
father was ill at the time, and his wife Helen had not been well, either.
170 He
would doubtless also miss his daughter Elizabeth. Yet, he had much work
ahead to keep his mind focused. Even as his friends and colleagues departed
the Titanic’s decks, Andrews and the rest of the builder’s delegation still had
much to do before the liner could actually depart Southampton on her maiden
voyage. Although she had been granted a certificate for carrying passengers,
she was far from a finished liner. Andrews wrote a quick line to his wife:
Just a line to let you know that we got away this morning in fine style
and have had a very satisfactory trial. We are getting more ship-shape
every hour, but there is still a great deal to be done.
171
Charles Lightoller noted that prior to Titanic’s departure for Southampton,
crewmembers and workers were busy bringing aboard materials and items
that were ‘required for the completion of the ship’. Amongst other things,
these materials included ‘requisites down in the galley, cooking apparatus, a
few chairs, and such things as that’.
172
Despite the ship’s unfinished state, that evening one individual actually
boarded the Titanic as a passenger. He was 61-year-old Wyckoff Van der
Hoef, and he had booked passage not only to Southampton, but also right
straight through to New York in First Class. Van der Hoef was returning to his
home in New York, and it seems that he had decided that taking the Titanic
would be an interesting way of concluding his trip despite the extended
layover in Southampton.
173
Once the last-minute supplies and equipment had been brought aboard,
and after those not proceeding with the ship disembarked, the Titanic turned
and departed Belfast, bound for Southampton and the start of her new career.
It was about 8:00 p.m., April 2, 1912.174 As the liner slowly steamed away
down the Belfast Lough, her brilliant lights reflecting on the surface of the
water, the throb of her engines began to fade in the distance. Finally, she
vanished from the sight of those left behind in the great shipbuilding city.
Titanic had ventured from the nest.
At that point, there was very little evidence that the Titanic had ever been
present, that so many laborers had toiled and sacrificed – that some had even
given their lives – in the construction of the great ship. She was now her own
entity, even as the Olympic was. For those left behind who were intimately
connected with the Titanic, however, there was more work at hand: her
younger sister Britannic lay on the ways, her construction yet in its earliest
stages. It would take years of labor before she, too, would steam from Belfast
to begin her own career.
That Tuesday night, although they had been quite insulated from the action
with the ship’s trials, the wireless operators learned just how well the battery
of tests had gone. The news broke when a number of telegrams addressed to
the White Star offices at Liverpool and Southampton – including some sent
specifically to Bruce Ismay – came through for transmission. Through these
messages, the operators learned that the ‘trials of the ship were very
favorable’.
175
Impressively, as the ship steamed toward Southampton that
night, Phillips and Bride were able to make direct contact and exchange
messages with stations at Tenerife, in the Canary Islands, and Port Said,
Egypt.
176
Through that night and the following day, April 3, the Titanic steamed
south in overall good weather, although there was some fog between two and
six in the morning on Wednesday.
177 Yet when the fog dispersed, it turned into
a ‘fine and bright’ day, all in all ‘quite presentable’. The sea was fairly
smooth, at least for liners of Titanic’s ilk, and quite favorable for making
good time. For several hours that day, the liner reportedly achieved a speed of
about 23¼ knots – two full knots over her originally-intended speed.178
Edward Wilding, Thomas Andrews’ right-hand man, had stayed aboard
the liner with a number of other Harland & Wolff employees beyond the
‘guarantee group’ that would sail on the maiden voyage. They busied
themselves carrying out ‘further trials’ and tests on board, to make sure that
the liner’s equipment would be fully ready to accept her first load of
passengers in just seven days’ time. There was a ‘still further electrical trial,
trials involving the sanitary arrangements and various other matters of that
sort’, Wilding recalled. Indeed, these trials included ‘trying everything in the
ship, and there [were] a good many things to try’.
179 Thomas Andrews must
have been a consistent blur of activity. It was said:
During the whole of Wednesday, the 3rd, until midnight, when the ship
arrived at Southampton, Andrews was ceaselessly employed going
round with representatives of the owners and of the Firm, in taking
notes and preparing reports of work still to be done.
180
Andrews did find time to eat, however. Saloon Steward Frederick Ray
remembered that he was assigned to wait on Andrews’ table during the trip
down to Southampton. Ray was already acquainted with Andrews, having
served him previously on the Olympic.
181
A summer 1911 view of the new London & South Western Railway docks, where the Titanic would
tie up.
The inside of the pier building’s upper floor, still under construction.
Eventually, the Titanic turned east, entering the English Channel and
steaming along the southern coast of England. That Wednesday, Olympic had
departed her berth in Southampton, west-bound for New York via Cherbourg
and Queenstown. As the Titanic passed the island of Portland, the two ships
were in communication with one another via wireless.
182 As the sunlight
began to fade in the western skies, Titanic began to near her new English
center of operations: Southampton. The Trinity House Harbor Pilot, most
likely George Bowyer, boarded the brilliantly-lit ship and guided her up the
dark waterways toward her berth.
183
Eventually the great liner reached the vicinity of the White Star Dock,
Berth 44, and she was maneuvered in stern-first by a half-dozen tugs.
Apparently, Pilot Bowyer and the tug commanders had learned from the
difficult time they had bringing the Olympic out of the same berth on her
maiden voyage the previous year, when she had been docked bow-first and
had to be turned prior to departure, and they were determined not to have a
repeat performance. The Titanic tied up at about midnight that Wednesday
night-Thursday morning, her trip from Belfast having encompassed
approximately 570 miles.
184 The arrival was without any formal salutes or
fanfare, no visiting dignitaries to be formally welcomed aboard, or anything
of the sort. In fact it was quite a quiet scene, very different from the noisy
welcome Olympic had enjoyed nearly a year before. When Titanic tied up,
Second Officer Blair went up to the Crow’s Nest and talked with Lookout
George Hogg. Blair had loaned the lookouts the set of binoculars which had
been provided for his use as Second Officer. With the voyage complete, and
no need for lookouts while in dock, it was time to put the binoculars in a safer
location, so that they would not get lost or stolen. Blair thus gave Hogg his
own keys, told him to lock his binoculars back up in his cabin, and then to
return the keys to him. Hogg accordingly went to Blair’s cabin, where he
safely locked the glasses up. On his way back to meet Blair to return the keys,
he was called away to work at something on the Forecastle. Thus, Hogg gave
Blair’s keys to Able Bodied Seaman William Weller, so that Weller could
return them to Blair.
185
The Titanic arrived in Southampton in the middle of an absolute
nightmare, both for the port, for all steamship lines, for railway travel –
indeed, for all of the United Kingdom. This nightmare had come in the form of
a nationwide coal strike; some estimates said that the strikers amounted to a
million men. The strike was centered upon the workers’ desire for a minimum
wage. Coal was the fuel of the day, powering ships, locomotives, industry,
and heating private homes as well. Liners were nothing short of ravenous for
the bituminous black substance. Everything in the nation’s economy depended
on a steady supply of coal being handy, and without it, everything began to
grind to a halt.
The strike had begun on February 29, 1912, and initial optimism that it
would pass quickly began to fade. The coal unions had in their coffers about
$10,000,000 when the strike started,186 and paid the workers a strike pay. As
deliveries of coal began to fall off, ships were laid up, causing thousands of
men and women employed on those ships to similarly become unemployed;
however, they did not benefit from strike pay.
White Star needed to find enough fuel for the Titanic’s maiden voyage,
and so they canceled upcoming passages of some of the smaller White Star
and IMM ships, and laid the ships up in Southampton. Then the coal from
those ships – along with some leftover fuel from the Olympic’s previous
coaling – was transferred to Titanic’s cavernous bunkers. As a result of these
cancellations, dock space in Southampton was at such a premium that some
liners were tied up side by side in sets of two or three, instead of with each
ship being given their own berth. Among the vessels laid up were the famous
White Star liners Majestic and Oceanic. So, too, were the famous American
liners New York, Philadelphia, St Louis and St Paul. Some of the passengers
booked on the smaller ships had their passages transferred to the new White
Star vessel.
Meanwhile, the British economy as a whole began to show signs of strain.
The miners’ unions had spent the equivalent of $6 million in a little over a
month. Towards the end of March, it was said:
The coal strike appears to have settled down into a test of endurance
between the miners and operators. Gloom pervades the country, with
all classes suffering from the effects of industrial war.
The confidential reports of the operators because of which they
refused all concessions stated that the miners generally were at the end
of their resources. Facing starvation, it was asserted, they would be
forced to give in, and it was pointed out by the leading operators that
if they stood firm they would utterly wreck the unions.
The miners deny, however, that they are in such shape financially
and that further resistance is hopeless. They have reduced strike
benefits and claim they can hold out for another fortnight, by which
time they say the operators will have been forced to concede their
demands.
187
While there were still funds remaining in the union coffers for strike pay, soon
a growing number of the workers – some 30,000 by April 3, with another
10,000 more the following day – had begun to break the lines and return to
work. It was clear that the strike would not last much longer.
Finally, on Saturday, April 6, the Miners’ Federation ended the strike by a
vote of 440 to 125. The loss of coal output from the mines was estimated at 28
million tons during the five-week ordeal – a monetary loss of over £11.2
million, the equivalent of about $56 million at the time. It was said that the
strike had paralyzed ‘half the trade of the United Kingdom for a month,
causing misery to millions of persons’. The railway companies alone,
estimates ran, had suffered losses of some $12.5 million as a result, although
it was also said that ‘the full extent of the mischief’ would ‘never be
known’.
188 However, even with the strike’s end, it was going to take quite
some time before things would return to normal:
In Scotland the miners will return to the collieries on Monday [April
8], but as that day is a holiday in England and Wales, the strikers there
will not return to the coal fields until Tuesday. In many mines two or
three days more will elapse before repairs can be completed. By the
end of the week, however, it is expected that every colliery will be in
full swing …
In North Wales the miners in general have returned to work, but
many pits are blocked with debris and several days must pass before
coal can be produced from them.
189
After work had resumed in the mines, it was going to take still longer for the
coal to reach the waterfronts in Southampton. Thus, although news of the
strike’s end was welcome to many in Southampton, it was clear that
unemployment in the shipping-oriented city would still be rife when the
Titanic departed on her maiden voyage. Consequently, demand for
employment as a member of her crew was very high. Most of the crew who
would be joining the Titanic signed on during Saturday, April 6 – the same
day that the coal strike had ended.
The maiden voyage of a new ship was always a trying time for her crew –
particularly for those in the victualling department who had to cater to
passengers’ needs and wishes. One of Titanic’s First Class Stewardesses, 24-
year-old Violet Jessop, remembered that the first trip of the Olympic had been
‘somewhat of an education’.
190 Olympic was so much larger than any
previous White Star liner – indeed, any previous ship in the world – that it
took quite a bit of time for her crew to become accustomed to her scale, her
facilities, and to simultaneously attempt to keep service for the passengers as
smooth as they were on any other ship. Eventually, Jessop – who stayed with
the Olympic through March of 1912 – and the other members of that liner’s
crew, had grown comfortable with the ship.
The maiden voyage of the Titanic, it was hoped, would prove less
unfamiliar to the crew. When the Olympic had departed Southampton on
Wednesday, April 3, she had left behind nearly two hundred and fifty of her
nearly nine hundred-person crew, who would subsequently join Titanic on her
maiden voyage. It was hoped that these individuals, highly experienced in the
operation of her similar sister, would ensure a smooth transition into service
for Titanic. Happily, the auburn-haired, blue-gray-eyed Jessop, who spoke
with a trace Irish brogue, would find many familiar faces from the Olympic
among Titanic’s crew members. Jessop was also well acquainted with
Thomas Andrews, who she admired for his kindness to the crew.
Andrews was a busy man during the six-day stretch while Titanic was in
Southampton. He was up early on Thursday, April 4, left the South Western
Hotel where he was staying, and spent the day ‘with managers and foremen
putting work in hand’.
191 When White Star had moved its primary English
terminus from Liverpool to Southampton in 1907, they had soon asked
Harland & Wolff to set up facilities in that port to help maintain and service
their liners. This branch of the Belfast shipbuilding firm was actually quite
extensive, situated upon a two-acre site. Included in the works was a boiler
shop, platers’ shed, joiners’ department, electrical shop, and more. There was
also a suite of offices.
192
It was with these local facilities and employees that Andrews and the
other members of the ‘builder’s delegation’ coordinated in order to help
finish the Titanic by the following Tuesday night. Things must have gone fairly
well in the course of that Thursday, for in the evening he wrote to his wife:
I wired you this morning of our safe arrival after a very satisfactory
trip. The weather was good and everyone most pleasant. I think the
ship will clean up all right before sailing on Wednesday.
193
Andrews went on to mention that Lord Pirrie’s doctors had refused to allow
him to make the maiden voyage. From that point on, Andrews was constantly
busy. Andrews’ secretary, Thompson Hamilton, wrote this account of
Andrews’ activities at the English port:
Through the various days that the vessel lay at Southampton, Mr.
Andrews was never for a moment idle. He generally left his hotel
about 8.30 for the offices, where he dealt with his correspondence,
then went on board until 6.30, when he would return to the offices to
sign letters. During the day I took to the ship any urgent papers and he
always dealt with them no matter what his business. He would himself
put in their place such things as racks, tables, chairs, berth ladders,
electric fans, saying that except he saw everything right he could not
be satisfied.194
As energetic as this activity might at first sound, they may have seemed a
nearly leisurely set of hours compared to those that Andrews was accustomed
to keeping in Belfast.
Certain issues were identified with the ship. These would need to be taken
care of, but there would only be time to do this after the maiden voyage. There
was some sort of serious trouble with the Restaurant Galley hot press.
Andrews also considered and advanced a design to reduce the number of
screws in stateroom hat hooks. He agreed with the owners that the coloring of
the pebble dashing on the Private Promenades was too dark. There was also a
plan in motion to stain the wicker furniture on one side of the ship green.
195
Beyond the actual technical problems – and considering the enormity of
the task Harland & Wolff had accomplished despite setbacks, there were
remarkably few of them – there still remained the small matter of finishing the
ship. There were a number of details still being seen to, and as it turned out
some would still be incomplete when she departed on the morning of
Wednesday, April 10. Some of the Second Class areas were not fully
furnished, including the lavatories. In one such section, it was reported that
only about half of the fixtures had been put in place, and that some of the
fixtures were sitting in crates, waiting to be installed.196 Some of the
staterooms themselves had also not been finished by the time she left
Southampton.
Much of the ship’s china, glassware and cutlery were not brought aboard
until the liner was in Southampton. Crate after crate of the items were carried
up the gangplanks and carefully unpacked. Location-specific items – the china
for the First Class Dining Saloon, for example, was quite different than that
used in the First Class Restaurant – had to be brought to the correct area
before they could be unpacked and finally stored.
In addition to attempts to have the ship ready in time for the start of her
maiden voyage, there was a full list of all of the things that usually had to be
done to prepare a ship for trans-Atlantic passage. This included coaling the
vessel. By early in the morning of Thursday, April 4, the ship had been
‘boomed out’ about twenty feet from the pier; as odd as this process might
sound, it actually was quite simple in execution. By placing booms against the
sides of the ship and pushing her away from the dock, and then making the
mooring lines quite fast to keep her from drifting further out, this provided a
stable gap between the side of the ship’s hull and the dock wall. The opening
allowed coal barges, commonly known as ‘coalies,’ from the R. & J. H. Rea
Company to slide along not only her starboard side, but also her port side – an
important consideration for simplifying the process of loading fuel aboard.
The coaling process was notoriously gritty, grimy and back-breaking, but
the Rea Company had things down to quite a science. Once the coaling barges
were alongside, Titanic’s thirty-five coal ports – eighteen along her port side,
and seventeen on the starboard side – were opened. These coal ports, located
just above the waterline, led to chutes that permitted coal to tumble down into
the bunkers, where it was subsequently distributed to prevent the ship from
listing one way or another. Coaling outriggers, mounted along the sides of the
Promenade Deck far above, would then be swung out. Lines were then
attached to the outriggers, which would then be used to haul buckets of coal
from the barges up to the coal doors, and dump each bucket down the chute.
197
It was a tremendously messy and noisy job, but Rea was said to be able to
load over 4,000 tons of coal in 15 working hours by 1911. This was a world
record, but quite naturally had to be split up, thus translating into a good two
working days.
198
For Titanic, the coaling process would thus have encompassed not only
Thursday, April 4, but Friday, as well. In all, she took on some 4,427 tons of
fresh coal, including what had been transferred from the bunkers of other
White Star and IMM ships laid up in port. With some 1,880 tons of coal left in
her bunkers when she arrived in Southampton, and burning a total of 415 tons
during her six-day stay in port, upon departure she had some 5,892 tons of
coal aboard. This was not a capacity load for her bunkers, but considering the
coal shortage, it was quite respectable, and would probably have left her with
about one thousand tons of spare coal at the crossing’s end.199
The Olympic had been opened for public inspection three times before her
maiden voyage: once, on May 27, 1911, in Belfast; again, on June 1, 1911 in
her registered home port of Liverpool; and finally on June 10, 1911, in
Southampton. The proceeds from the small admission prices benefited local
charities. However, because the Titanic was so thoroughly behind schedule in
completion, there had been no public inspection in Belfast, and the stopover
in Liverpool had also been canceled. Similarly, White Star had to extend their
apologies to local Southampton residents: the Titanic would not have a public
inspection during her first stay in the port. Only later, after the maiden voyage,
would there be time for the public at large to become thoroughly acquainted
with the ship. As a sort of salute to the city, however, Titanic was dressed in a
dazzling array of multi-colored flags from early in the morning of Thursday,
April 4.
That same morning, a local photographer went down to the much
disorganized Berth 44, which appeared to be strewn with rubble. He snapped
a bow-on picture of the liner with Rea’s ‘coalies’ alongside, and the
celebratory flags fluttering from her rigging. By the end of the day, the photo
had been reproduced in post card format and made available to the public for
purchase. A proud Fourth Officer Boxhall picked up a copy of the post card
and wrote upon it before the day was out, mentioning that the photo had been
taken earlier on that same Thursday.
200
In addition to the coaling process, there was a considerable amount of
cargo to load aboard. There was also bedding and other linens to be brought
on to the ship and stored; there were beds to make, pillows to fluff, and a
good deal of other work to do to make the ship presentable for her first batch
of passengers. Yet, for many of the ship’s crew who had come down from
Belfast and would be continuing on the maiden voyage, the six days their ship
would spend in Southampton meant time to spend seeing the sights of the local
area.
This photo was taken on Thursday, April 4. The ship is already being coaled for her maiden
voyage; she is dressed as a salute to the city of Southampton. This photo, in postcard form, was
printed, distributed, sold, and posted before the day was out.
Titanic remains dressed, and coaling continues.
This view of Titanic was likely taken from a passing harbor vessel or the Hythe ferry in the River
Test.
Although somewhat grainy, this photograph of Titanic’s Bridge and Forecastle shows men on the
ratlines for the foremast.
For Marconi Operators Jack Phillips and Harold Bride, there was very
little to do. As employees of the Marconi Company, and not the White Star
Line or Harland & Wolff, it was not their job to pitch in and help finish the
ship, load her cargo, or tend to the malfunctioning Restaurant Galley hot
press. Their business was the wireless, and as the ship was in port, there
seems to have been a notable absence of work to accomplish. Apparently,
they went ashore pretty much every day. Phillips even made an excursion to
Cowes, on the Isle of Wight, on Friday, April 5, and noted that the weather
was glorious.
201
Naturally the ship’s officers needed to maintain their standard in-port
watches. There was always a senior officer – either Chief Officer Murdoch,
First Officer Lightoller, or Second Officer Blair – on duty during the day,
alongside one of the junior officers. At night, two of the junior officers
maintained the watch, although Second Officer Blair stood watch on the night
of April 4.202 However, in their off-duty hours even the officers were free to
go ashore.
Yet almost as soon as the Titanic had tied up in Southampton, there came
news of a significant change in the ranks of her senior officer corps.
Olympic’s Chief Officer, 39-year-old Henry T. Wilde had been kept ashore
when the Olympic departed Southampton on April 3, and was assigned to
make the Titanic’s first round-trip voyage. Lightoller later recalled that Wilde
had stayed ashore because he was to receive ‘command of another of the
White Star steamers, which, owing to the coal strike and other reasons was
laid up’.
203
The news was not entirely welcome to the senior officers who had
already been attached to the ship. Then Chief Officer William Murdoch was
forced to step back to First Officer; First Officer Lightoller likewise stepped
back to fill the role of Second Officer. Second Officer David Blair found that
he had become superfluous, and was to be left behind.
On Thursday, April 4, David Blair got to spend the day at his home.
Having picked up a picture post card of the liner, he took the opportunity to
dash off a note:
4th, Southampton
Arrived on ‘Titanic’ from Belfast today. Am afraid I shall have to step
out to make room for [the] Chief Officer of the Olympic who was
going in command but so many ships laid up he will have to wait.
Hope eventually to get back to this ship … Been home all day and
down on board tonight on watch. This is a magnificent ship, I feel very
disappointed I am not to make the first voyage.
204
The stern Boat Deck on the port side, looking forward.
This photo shows that the photographer has likely turned to face aft. Crates of supplies and
material have been brought aboard and sit on the Well Deck.
A stern view of the liner at her berth.
He posted the note to a Miss Mackness of Broughty Ferry, Scotland.
Interestingly, although Blair was disappointed not to be able to sail with the
Titanic on April 10, he stayed with the ship during the entire time she was in
Southampton. The note quoted above mentioned that he would stand watch on
the night of Thursday, April 4, and other officers from the liner recalled that
Wilde did not formally join the ship until the evening of Tuesday, April 9.205
Thus throughout the stay in Southampton, officer designations – with Murdoch
as Chief Officer, and so forth – remained officially unchanged.
Henry Wilde was a good officer, accomplished and highly able. He had
served as a Lieutenant in the Royal Navy Reserve, and had also seen service
aboard the White Star liners Republic, Coptic, Majestic, Baltic, Adriatic and
Olympic. He was a widower supporting four children since his wife’s
untimely death a year and a half before. Not unexpectedly, he had some
difficulty overcoming the tragic loss. Her passing had hit him so hard that an
acquaintance heard him remark that ‘he didn’t care particularly how he went
or how soon he joined her.’206 Despite this, there is no evidence that Wilde
was anything but ready and willing to serve when he returned to work,
although he was a bit apprehensive about the switch to Titanic.
207 Lightoller
called Wilde ‘a pretty big, powerful chap, and he was a man that would not
argue very long.’208
Understandably, the other officers were somewhat dissatisfied with the
alteration in officer positions, although there is no direct evidence that they
harbored any resentment toward Wilde for his presence. Lightoller recalled
the change-up, however, as ‘unfortunate’. He felt that it was a ‘doubtful
policy’ which ‘threw both Murdoch and me out of our stride; and, apart from
our disappointment of having to step back in our rank, caused quite a little
confusion.’ Although he recalled that they settled into their new positions
quickly, events on sailing day and thereafter would prove that there was still
some lingering confusion.
209 A sort of ship-board game of ‘musical cabins’
subsequently ensued within the Officers’ Quarters. Murdoch and Lightoller
had to leave their own quarters, in which they had been settled since before
leaving Belfast, and move: Murdoch to Lightoller’s, and Lightoller to Blair’s
old cabin. Meanwhile, Wilde moved into Murdoch’s cabin, and Blair had to
make sure he had cleared out of his quarters.
In another interesting twist, it would seem that the decision to bring Wilde
aboard was so last-minute, and in all likelihood so temporary, that Lightoller
did not have time to change his uniform insignia or the number of stripes on
his sleeves that reflected his rank. It is also quite likely that Murdoch did not
alter his uniform.
210 Naturally, there would have been no need for Wilde to
alter his uniform, as he had already been serving as the Chief Officer of the
Olympic. Confusion continued to linger among many members of the crew, as
well, with some using the term ‘chief officer’ to refer to Murdoch, and so
forth.
The coaling process had most likely been finished by the end of Friday,
April 5. The ship was pulled back in close to the dock’s edge. By Monday,
April 8, at the latest, the ship’s dress flags had been put away. That same day,
workmen perched precariously in bosun’s chairs above the Boat Deck
touched up the paint on the ship’s quartet of smokestacks. The ship’s white
upper works on the port side had already received some ‘touching up’ just
before leaving Belfast; rust, the bane of all steamships, had to be thoroughly
tended and covered with fresh paint even in the newest of ships.
This photo was likely taken on Monday, April 8. The coaling process is complete and the ship has
been placed back against the wharf.
Also taken on April 8, this beautiful view shows the White Star pennant fluttering from the
mainmast. Paint crews touch up the funnel paint.
Chief Officer Henry T. Wilde. He is seen here in his Royal Navy Reserve Lieutenant’s uniform, c.
1911.
Lightoller’s sleeves on April 11 still show the two stripes of a First Officer, even though he was
then serving as Titanic’s Second Officer.
On Tuesday, April 9, Board of Trade Emigration Officer Maurice Clarke
came aboard the Titanic. Clarke’s responsibility was to make sure that the
ship adhered to all Board of Trade safety regulations, and if she did, to clear
her to depart the following day. Apparently, Clarke was a stickler for making
sure that ships were properly equipped before he signed off on clearance for
their departures. First Officer Lightoller was very familiar with him; he
recalled that, he and the other officers referred to him as a ‘nuisance’ because
he made them ‘fork out every detail’. Lightoller recalled that Clarke insisted
on inspecting everything that contributed to the ship’s life-saving equipment.
‘Life preservers throughout the ship, all the boats turned out, uncovered, all
the tanks examined, all the breakers examined, oars counted, boats turned out,
rudders tried, all the davits tried – there was innumerable details work.’211
Lightoller later said that during Clarke’s work aboard the Titanic, he
‘certainly lived up to his reputation of being the best cursed B.O.T.
representative in the South of England at that time.’212
Among the more exotic tests carried out that day was the ship’s stability
test. Then First Officer Lightoller described it thus:
The builders knowing the exact weights on board, additional weights
are placed on each side of the ship. A pendulum is suspended in the
most convenient place in the ship with a plumb on the end of it, and a
method of registering the difference with the plumb line; a number of
men then transfer the weights from one side of the ship to the other,
bringing all the weight on one side and transferring the whole of it
back again; and with this, I believe the builders are able to draw up a
stability scale.
213
In this particular instance, the test was carried out on C Deck, not quite
amidships. In all, Lightoller was with Clarke for about four hours that day; he
then passed Clarke on to the care of Chief Officer Murdoch – no doubt with a
measure of relief.
214 Eventually, Clarke had completed as much of his work as
he could for the day and departed; he would return early the next morning to
finish the job.
This photograph was apparently taken on April 9, and shows the Bridge and forward
superstructure from the Forecastle, just forward of the breakwater.
Left to right, the Majestic, Philadelphia and St Louis are berthed on the opposite side of the LSWR
docks. Titanic’s stern can be seen on the right edge of the photograph.
A stern view of the Titanic in her dock, with the hull of the St Louis on the extreme right.
A large consignment of bottled beer inside the upper level of the pier building, waiting to be
loaded aboard the liner.
During that same Tuesday, Second Officer Blair had enough time to take
his sister aboard the ship for a tour. Titanic was so big that it took several
hours for Blair to lead her throughout the vessel. Even at this late stage, the
ship was still a ‘hive of activity’, as carpets were still being laid and
decorators were hard at work trying to finish up the last few details.
215
Although not specifically mentioned by Blair’s sister, we know that much
interior painting had been carried out during the stay in Southampton, and
some may even have been done on the day before sailing, as it seems that not
all of it had completely cured by sailing time. Several passengers, upon
boarding on April 10, recalled that certain sections of the ship smelled
strongly of fresh paint.
The presence of this strong chemical smell may partially explain why the
Titanic was remembered by at least one of her passengers as a ‘ship full of
flowers.’216 Although floral arrangements for ships like the Olympic and
Titanic were always quite extensive, steamship companies habitually
provided more flowers on board a ship which had just received fresh paint in
her interior spaces, in an attempt to mask the smell.
217 Such a provision seems
to have been made in Titanic’s case, for the sheer number of flowers aboard
seemed to stand out even to seasoned First Class travelers during the voyage.
The flowers themselves were brought aboard on Tuesday evening by a
local florist, Frank Bealing, his son Frank, Jr., and the Bealings’ foreman, W.
F. ‘Bill’ Geapin. The Bealings had the contract to supply all flowers for
White Star liners calling in Southampton, and were very proud to have such
an illustrious client. They arrived at Berth 44 in a mule-driven cart loaded
with hundreds of potted plants, large and small. A tarpaulin was spread out on
the floor in one of the ship’s foyers, and the plants were carried aboard and
placed on the tarp. Then the flowers were distributed to the individual cabins
and public rooms. Some even went into cool storage so that they could look
fresh as they were brought out and placed in various locations, such as the
tables of the First Class Dining Saloon, during the course of the crossing.
218
By that night, it was becoming clear that things were actually going to
come together for the scheduled sailing time of noon the following day.
Thomas Andrews wrote to his wife: ‘The Titanic is now about complete and
will I think do the old Firm credit to-morrow when we sail.’219 Former
Second Officer David Blair made his last departure from the liner, no doubt
still wishing he could have remained aboard for the trip.220 That night, Fourth
Officer Boxhall returned to the Titanic from his last shore excursion at about
11:00 o’clock.
221 He and the other officers of the ship would stay aboard for
the last night in port. Senior Wireless Operator John ‘Jack’ Phillips and his
assistant, Harold Bride, spent their last evening before the maiden voyage
ashore, but they eventually found their way back aboard by 11:30 that night.
222
Meanwhile Captain Smith went ashore and stayed overnight at his red
brick, twin-gabled home – which was named Woodhead – on Winn Road. It
was his last opportunity to spend time with his wife Sarah Eleanor and their
12-year-old daughter Helen, before an anticipated two-week round-trip
voyage. It seems likely that Smith was going to retire after this prestigious
round-trip voyage on the Titanic. He may very well have looked forward to
spending more time with his family in the months and years ahead. But there
was one last task at hand, and it was to be the crowning achievement of his
career: he would be commanding the world’s largest, newest and greatest ship
on her maiden voyage.
Through that night, the Titanic sat at Berth 44, White Star Dock. Her dark
shape dwarfed the pier-side structure, her size only given away by the amount
of horizon that she blocked out, and the number of her windows and portholes
which stood out at her side. A slight whiff of coal smoke might have been in
the air, as her auxiliary equipment was providing electrical power to the ship.
Every now and then, an officer could have been seen walking back and forth
on the Bridge and Bridge wing. Overall, the scene would have been quiet.
There must have been an aura of anticipation surrounding her presence.
One wonders how many of her crew, her officers, and of the Harland & Wolff
personnel who had come down to take passage aboard her had trouble
sleeping from excitement. What would the morning bring with it? Only time
would tell, but one thing was for sure: all of the hustle and bustle of sailing
day was coming quickly, and activity would begin very early the next
morning.
The Last Voyage?
Over the years, there has been extreme controversy over whether or not the maiden
voyage of the Titanic was slated to be Captain Smith’s last round-trip before a quiet
retirement at the pinnacle of a long and largely uneventful career. While many have simply
reported that this was to be Smith’s final voyage, others find the story unlikely. Those who
fall into the latter category cite two press stories published in a Halifax newspaper just a
few days after the disaster.
These papers reported that Smith would have remained in command of the Titanic until
such time as ‘a larger and finer steamer’ entered service with the White Star Line. Such
reports could only have been referring to the Britannic, third of the Olympic-class ships.
Although the information purportedly came from White Star officials, the reference to the
new steamer was quite vague, particularly as the ship had already been laid down four
months before, and was well known to be under construction in Belfast. Yet no connection
to the Olympic and Titanic was made, despite the fact that the new liner was the third of
the class. The reference seems so vague, in fact, that it begins to cast a shadow of
suspicion on exactly who the sources were.
Based on experience with the first two ships of the class, from the Britannic’s status
in April of 1912 it would have been expected to take at least two to two-and-a-half full
years before she would be ready to enter service. In fact, delays in the third ship’s
construction, due to a number of factors, would delay her delivery even further. When he
took command of the Titanic in April of 1912, Smith was already 62 years old. This means
that he would have been no less than 64 years of age when the White Star Line anticipated
the Britannic to enter service, and possibly older. In 1910, the Cunard Line had placed a
60-year-old age limit for skippers of their crack liners Lusitania and Mauretania. To
expect Smith to stay in service until 64 or 65 years of age for the third ship of the class
would, on its own, seem an unreasonable delay in retirement for him.
Interestingly, the New York Times of June 6, 1911 reported:
Capt. E. J. Smith, R.N.R., the Commodore [sic] of the White Star Line, who is to
command the new mammoth liner Olympic, will retire at the end of the present
year, it is understood, as he will have reached the age limit. He will be relieved by
Capt. H. J. Haddock of the Oceanic.
This well-put-together report was circulated well before the Titanic disaster, instead of
shortly after when press stories were at times playing fast and loose with the facts.
Interestingly, we have yet to find a retraction or correction on this retirement story
between June of 1911 and April of 1912.
So although far more ironic in hindsight, it seems that Captain Smith’s career was
extended for a few months past the end of 1911 in order to give him the honor of taking out
the Titanic. Not only would this have been a wonderful ‘thank you’ from a grateful
company, but it would have served the dual purpose of ensuring that a skipper experienced
with ships of Titanic’s ilk would be at her helm during the maiden voyage.
This bow view of the Titanic gives a good idea of what she looked like to those standing on the
wharf on the morning of April 10, 1912. The photo was taken earlier during Titanic’s stay,
however; workers can be seen touching up the ship’s white paint amidships.

D
CHAPTER 2
AN AUSPICIOUS CROSSING
Day One – Wednesday, April 10, 1912.
awn arrived in Southampton, England, at 5:23 a.m.
1 The day was rather
overcast, but every now and then the sun poked brilliantly through the
clouds.
2 The temperature during the morning stood at about 48° Fahrenheit.
3
Titanic towered over the Southampton waterfront. The Majestic, St Louis and
Philadelphia – all tied up astern of the Titanic on the opposite side of the
new London & South Western Railway Dock facility – looked positively
diminutive by comparison. The swallow-tailed White Star house flag fluttered
from the peak of the Titanic’s mainmast.
4 The mighty liner sparkled in all her
resplendent newness.
At 6:00 a.m., Thomas Andrews boarded the Titanic, having stayed one
last night in his room at the South Western Hotel. Immediately upon boarding,
he began a thorough inspection of the ship. He was pleased with what he
found, it was said.5
It was also at 6:00 a.m. that many of the Titanic’s crew
members began to gather aboard.6 The number of crew boarding the ship
began to increase as time passed, as all had to be on hand in time for the crew
muster.
Those who hadn’t already been aboard during the ship’s stay in
Southampton made their way to their quarters to drop off their kits and get
settled in. How many of them managed to find their way to the proper quarters
quickly is anyone’s guess. Certainly, most of those who had come over from
the Olympic could have found their way around easily enough – although there
were some differences between the two ships that no doubt confused even
those crewmen. Those who reported aboard from other, smaller liners were
no doubt stunned by the ship’s size. Once they found their accommodations,
there were many old shipmates to catch up with, and some new faces to meet,
as well. For the most part, however, things were all business that morning.
Captain Smith left his home on Winn Road, which was about two and a
half miles north of White Star Dock, at about 7:00 a.m. As he came out his
front door, the local paperboy, 11-year-old Albert ‘Ben’ Benham, was at the
house next door. The young lad caught up with Smith, and the Captain said:
‘Alright son, I’ll take my paper.’7 Smith then proceeded to Berth 44, arriving
at about 7:30 a.m. By 8:00 a.m., a 15-foot long Blue Ensign was raised at the
ensign staff on the stern. There were two British Ensigns, one red and one
blue. The Blue Ensign could only be flown upon Admiralty warrant aboard a
ship whose Captain, as well as at least 10 ratings or officers, were members
of the Royal Naval Reserve. Hoisting this particular ensign was thus another
special honor for the world’s largest ship.8
Like Captain Smith, British Board of Trade Immigration Officer Captain
Maurice Clarke also boarded at about 7:30 a.m.
9
In the limited time available
to him that morning, Clarke had to oversee the crew muster and the lifeboat
drill. White Star’s Southampton Marine Superintendent, Captain Benjamin
Steele, also boarded early that morning. His responsibility was to ensure that
all of the proverbial ducks were in order as far as the Company was
concerned.
The crew members began to assemble for the formal muster at about 8:00
a.m.; as the ship’s crew was so large, they had to congregate in a number of
different locations. The firemen were mustered in one area, the seamen in
another, and the stewards in a third. One by one, every member of the ship’s
crew had to assemble and pass in a line before Captain Smith, the ship’s
officers and surgeons, Captain Clarke, Captain Steele, and the Board of Trade
Doctor.
10 The sign-on sheets were produced, roll-call taken, and a firm head
count was also taken. A medical examination was made – an important detail,
although probably rather cursory in nature considering the somewhat limited
time available that morning – to make sure that the crew members were all in
good health. As could be expected, there were a few crewmen who had
signed on but who had not actually shown up for duty. Replacements were on
hand and quickly signed aboard. It took about an hour for this task to be
completed.11
The crew dispersed from the muster; firemen not on duty were free to go
ashore as long as they returned before the ship sailed. Many of those who
disembarked for the remainder of the morning did so to visit the local pubs for
a last pint. In the meanwhile, stewards, stewardesses and others in the
victualling department could not go ashore, as they had to prepare for and tend
to arriving passengers.
After the muster, almost the entire Deck Department – which was
comprised of some sixty-six men – headed up to the starboard Boat Deck for
the ship’s lifeboat drill.
12 By about 9:00 a.m.,
13 Chief Officer Wilde, First
Officer Murdoch, Second Officer Lightoller, Third Officer Pitman, Fifth
Officer Lowe, and Sixth Officer Moody were assembled along with the rest of
the men.
14 Lowe and Moody were selected to take charge of the two lifeboats
chosen for testing, Boats Nos 11 and 13.15 Lowe took Boat No. 11, and
Moody took No. 13.
The two lifeboats were uncovered, swung out, and lowered until level
with the deck. Eight crewmen – quartermasters and Able-Bodied Seamen –
were placed into each of the boats.
16 They tied on lifebelts, and then they
were lowered away under Captain Clarke’s watchful eye.
17 White Star
Marine Superintendent Captain Steele was also present and overseeing the
test. Usually, the boats would have had their sails raised and tested once in the
water, but on that morning the winds were a bit gusty, so that part of the drill
was canceled.18
Instead, the boats were rowed around the waterfront for ‘a
couple of turns’, before returning to the ship and being hoisted back up to the
deck.
19
In all, the drill had lasted about a half-hour.
20 Captain Clarke and
Captain Steele were both satisfied with the results. Next, Fifth Officer Lowe
and some of the other men headed off for a quick bit of breakfast before the
ship departed.21
In this photo, Titanic glistens. A careful inspection shows that much of her starboard hull had
recently received fresh paint along its length.
Captain Smith standing on the Bridge of the Titanic on the morning of April 10, 1912.
This photo is of Titanic’s A Deck Promenade. The photographer is looking forward on the port
side. Judging from the angle of the sun and shadows, the photo was taken at about 9:30 in the
morning of the departure. The weather that day was only partly sunny.
A typical crew muster on the Olympic.
Meanwhile, the ship’s passengers were beginning to converge on
Southampton, and things at the dock were beginning to get rather busy. Two
‘Titanic Special’ Boat Trains had been scheduled to depart London’s
Waterloo Station that morning. One was for Second and Third Class
passengers, while the other was for First Class passengers only. These Boat
Trains would whisk passengers conveniently from London directly to the new
London & South-Western Railway facilities at Southampton’s Berth 44,
directly adjacent to the towering side of the Titanic. If there were no delays,
the exact length of this railway passage could run from about an hour and a
half to an hour and three quarters.
22
 First Class passengers nearly unanimously
remembered that their Boat Train departed the London station at 8:00 a.m., but
it would not arrive in Southampton until about 11:30.23
Boarding the First Class Boat Train at Waterloo that morning were 48-
year-old Elmer Zebley Taylor and his 49-year-old wife, Juliet. Taylor later
wrote:
The boat train from Waterloo was scheduled to leave about 8:00 A.M.
We took a ‘growler’ [a slang term for a four-wheel hansom cab] from
Whitehall Hotel, 8 Montague Street, W. C., and when we arrived at
Waterloo, three people were getting out of another ‘growler’ just
ahead of us. I took a look, and said to my wife, ‘What oh! John D. is
going along with us.’
Securing a porter, we moved along the platform without luggage, to
find every compartment marked ‘Engaged’ or ‘Occupied’. Finally, I
dropped a half-crown in the conductor’s hand, and asked him to find
us seats. Much to my surprise, he unlocked the door of a compartment
in which were seated, next to the corridor, the two ladies we saw
getting out of the ‘growler’. The old gentleman finally came along
with a half dozen roses, the kind with long stems and single buds at the
top. As soon as he entered, mother said (Mid-West twang) ‘I thought
you reserved a compartment for us.’ ‘So I did,’ was his reply. Well, it
was not long before we began to move along.
24
Also boarding the First Class Boat Train that morning was 32-year-old
25
Francis ‘Frank’ M. Browne, a student at the Belvedere College, which was a
Jesuit school in Dublin, Ireland.26 Browne was only traveling to Queenstown,
Ireland, aboard the Titanic, but he was quite excited about the trip, as it was
to be his first time at sea on a large liner. Browne was traveling with a group
of friends: brothers Richard and Stanley May, their sister Mrs Lily Odell, and
her children Jack and Kate Odell.
27 Browne had traveled from Dublin to
Holyhead, Wales, and thence overland to London; apparently, he stayed that
Tuesday night in London with his brother James, who was an eye specialist.
Passengers board the special First Class Boat Train to Southampton at London’s Waterloo Station.
Although frequently identified as such, the man looking at the photographer was neither John
Jacob Astor or his cousin, William Waldorf Astor. The photo was taken by Francis Browne. As of
this writing, there is no certain identification for anyone in the photo.
Francis Browne was a budding amateur photographer, a hobby heartily
encouraged by his Uncle Robert, who had even bought a camera for him. That
morning, as the First Class Boat Train was preparing to depart, he walked out
on the platform, turned back and photographed the scene. He then walked back
and took a closer photograph of the group on the platform. Although it would
be a beautiful day, the early morning temperatures still had quite a chill, and
top coats and hats were quite in evidence.
28 Once aboard, and as the train
pulled out of the station, Browne daringly held his camera out the window,
snapping a photo as they rounded a curve in the tracks.
Meanwhile, Elmer and Juliet Taylor were getting settled into their
compartment on the Boat Train. It turned out that they were sharing the space
with the Crosby family of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The father was 70-year-old
Captain Edward Crosby, a veteran of the Civil War and a Great Lakes
shipping magnate. His wife Catherine, then aged 64, was born in Waterloo,
New York, and the couple was just eight days shy of their forty-fourth
wedding anniversary. They were traveling with their daughter Harriette, who
was then thirty-nine years of age. Harriette was divorced from her first
husband, and just that February had given birth to a daughter, the result of an
affair with another – and already married – man. The trio was traveling
without the infant, and had made special plans in order to be able to sail to the
United States aboard the Titanic.
29
 Elmer Taylor recalled:
The old gentleman seated opposite me on the window side fumbled
with a cigar in his waistcoat pocket, anxious to have his morning
smoke, and as we were in a ‘No Smoking’ compartment, I said, ‘Go
ahead, my friend, and light up, and if you don’t mind I will join you.’
They had many small parcels – last minute shopping, I thought. As
we rolled along, I began to point out places of interest, Houses of
Parliament, Lambeth Palace, Doulton’s Pottery Works, this and that.
Breaking the ice in this informal way, the ladies softened, became
friendly, and long before we reached Southampton, we were a family
party.
30
A selection of three White Star Line baggage tags. Top left and right: First Class tags. Second Class
Baggage tag for luggage not wanted on the voyage. A LSWR ticket for the Second Class Boat
Train from London’s Waterloo Station to Southampton. The ticket belonged to Miss Lucy Ridsdale.
Unfortunately, no specific time of departure is marked on the ticket.
Many stood on the White Star Dock beside the cliff-like sides of the Titanic
that morning, staring up in awe at her size, her grace, her majesty. When he
arrived dockside at 9:30 a.m., however, one man must have beamed more than
anyone else: J. Bruce Ismay.
31 The Chairman and Managing Director of the
White Star Line – and, since 1904, President of J. P. Morgan’s International
Mercantile Marine – must have felt a thrill at seeing the second of the
Olympic-class liners in her berth, nearly ready to sail. It was not the first time
he had seen the liner, and she was only the second of three ships in the class.
However her entry into the North Atlantic route was a tremendous step
forward in equaling the express service then offered by Ismay’s chief rival,
Cunard, with their liners Lusitania and Mauretania. She was an improvement
over her older sister, Olympic, in many small ways, and she even held the title
of ‘world’s largest ship’. She was a tremendous liner in her own right, and
she was his company’s greatest achievement.
Ismay’s wife, Julia Florence, his three youngest children, his valet
Richard Fry and his secretary William Henry Harrison, all boarded Titanic
with Ismay. They had stayed the previous night at the South Western Hotel,
within sight of the enormous liner.
32 Although Ismay’s family had
accompanied him on the Olympic’s maiden voyage the previous June, they
would not be making the maiden voyage of the Titanic. Ismay himself made a
habit of taking the maiden trip of all his new liners, to see how they worked,
and what could be improved upon them and in their successors, so the trip
was not an unusual one in that sense. Once Ismay had settled in to his port side
suite – rooms B-52, B-54 and B-56 – with its private promenade, and after
his family saw some of Titanic’s interior spaces, the remainder of the Ismay
family disembarked.
As the morning wore on and sailing time approached, the First Class Boat
Train was making its way toward the Southampton docks. In every multi-stage
trip, there are moments of excitement as well as lulls, moments when the
traveler can catch his breath and relax before the next burst of activity,
perhaps even to feel quite comfortable in his new if temporary surroundings.
Yet invariably as the next junction is approached, the sensation of excitement
builds again: all of the accompanying luggage needs to be re-gathered; a nose
count done of friends and family to make sure everyone in the group is
sticking together; and a quick double- or triple-check to make sure that the
tickets are still on hand. The more grounded individuals – likely seasoned
travelers, or perhaps the sort that simply are rather at ease no matter where
they are, familiar surroundings or not – tend to take the whole thing in stride,
as if they are doing nothing more exciting than coming down the stairs of their
own home for a relaxed breakfast.
A second category of traveler compulsively worries and frets to make
sure everything is taken care of. Still others, roiling within, create a heavylidded, ‘ho-hum’ sort of façade – as if giving in to the excitement or worry
was somehow beneath their dignity. They try, with varying degrees of success,
to look as cool and collected as those who really are calm.
Finally, there are those who are seemingly oblivious to the details of
luggage and what-nots, and are instead visibly excited about spotting the
actual mechanical marvel that they would next board: ‘Didn’t you know’, they
might ask their unflappable companions, hoping to instill some sense of
excitement and elicit an enthusiastic response, ‘that Titanic is fifty per cent
bigger than the Mauretania?’ Perhaps if the ship they were about to board
was an older, smaller liner, their enthusiasm could be dismissed as passé. But
on this morning, even the most incorrigibly under-whelmed seemed to be
caught up in the anticipation of climbing aboard the largest and newest ship in
the world.
As the hour-and-a-half rail passage began to come to its inevitable
conclusion, many strained to catch their first glimpse of the Titanic. Francis
M. Browne peered out of the First Class Boat Train windows as it chugged its
way through the city of Southampton. Frustratingly, he could only manage
fleeting glances of the enormous White Star liner as the train moved through
city streets, between buildings, and toward the docks. Finally, the train pulled
in and stopped just a stone’s throw from the ship’s sides.
When the Boat Train came to rest and the time came to disembark, Elmer
Taylor noticed that the trio sharing their compartment might have trouble
getting all their parcels and other bits and pieces out and to the ship. So he
obligingly offered to lend them a hand in carrying their things to the ship, and
they accepted his kind offer. Taylor picked up every item he could possibly
hold, carried them to the towering side of the steamer, and there he amiably
parted company with the Crosby party.
33
Although the scene at the Southampton waterfront was already busy, with
the arrival of the Boat Trains and their human cargo, the workload increased
still further. For Third Class passengers, cursory medical examinations had to
be made; luggage from all passengers had to be sorted and brought aboard –
some of it tagged ‘Not Wanted’ and bound for the holds for the journey, and
some of it marked ‘Wanted’ and bound for passenger cabins.
This c. 1911–12 photo shows the Olympic in the LSWR docks, near where Titanic was berthed. The
view gives an excellent idea of the many rail lines and heavy traffic in the vicinity.
A period map of the Southampton waterfront, showing the location of the South Western Hotel, the
Dock Station, and the new LSWR docks where Titanic was berthed.
The scene at Berth 44, although no more hectic or greater in scale than a
typical Olympic departure during the previous ten months, was still rather
epic. The new pier-side cargo sheds, built by the London & South Western
Railway, were nearly as large as the Titanic herself, at 700 feet in length and
120 feet in width. There were waiting rooms and lavatories at the southern
end of the shed – closest to the Titanic’s bow – as well as cages for bonded
cargo, offices for the Medical Examiner, Foreman and clerks. Porters moved
rapidly back and forth within the shed, straining to carry numerous pieces of
luggage aboard the ship.
It was from the upper level of the Berth 44 shed that passengers could
walk out onto a verandah, some eighteen feet above the ground, which ran
parallel with the dock wall. It faced not only the dock below but also the
towering side of the Titanic, the fresh paint of which gleamed in the morning
sun that occasionally decided to peer out from behind the clouds. It was also
from this upper level that passengers could make their way to the boarding
gantries. Each of these gantries, steel framed but covered with timber shelters,
was 40 feet high and 20 feet wide. They had two levels so that passengers
could board or disembark the Olympic or Titanic no matter what the state of
tide.
34
The northern gantry – for the use of Second Class passengers – was
attached to the Second Class shell doors on C Deck, astern, and passengers
embarked the ship via that gantry’s lower level. The southern gantry was for
the use of First Class passengers; from its upper level, they entered the ship
through the B Deck shell doors, landing in the special B Deck Entrance area,
just forward of the Parlour Suite with its private promenade. Just inside –
through two sets of double doors – was the forward First Class Entrance and
Grand Staircase, which led either up or down, depending on what deck
passengers’ cabins were on. Considering their exertions in boarding the ship,
it is also possible that a number of them found their way to the trio of
elevators just forward, which could smoothly and effortlessly carry them up to
the Promenade Deck, or down to the lower decks of accommodation.
Doubtless some of the First Class passengers were familiar with the
Olympic’s similar interior decorations, but at the same time, many others
remembered being nearly flabbergasted by the ship’s beauty, splendor,
newness, and sheer size. Francis M. Browne, for example, had met an old
friend – Tom Brownrigg – after disembarking the Boat Train. Brownrigg
decided to accompany his friend aboard and get a peek at the new ship before
she sailed. Browne recalled:
Together we started; but it was not till, having ascended three flights
of stairs, we stood on the little gangway that gave admission to the
Saloon entrance lobby, that we could form any adequate idea of the
size of the ‘largest ship in the world’.
Left and right stretched a wall of steel that towered high above the
roof of the station that we had just left. We were about forty feet above
the quay level, and yet scarce more than half way up the side of the
ship. Below us the people looked tiny, while some hundred and twenty
yards aft we could see the Second-class passengers crossing the
gangway into their portion of the ship.35
Browne paused about two-thirds of the way out to the ship on the boarding
gantry, and snapped a picture looking to the north, along the ship’s cliff-like
sides, capturing the scene he described. Once aboard, the next order of
business for Browne and Brownrigg was to proceed to the Purser’s Enquiry
Office, which was one deck below on the starboard side of the forward First
Class Entrance.
The Enquiry Office was the focal point of much activity on sailing day.
Passengers proceeded there for information on how to find their cabins,
deposit valuables for safekeeping, exchange money, arrange for table
assignments in the Dining Saloon, to rent steamer chairs or rugs for the
voyage, or to arrange for their rebate if taking all meals aboard ship in the à
la carte Restaurant rather than the main Dining Saloon. Here, Browne had
only to produce a ‘letter of introduction’, which ‘served as a passport to the
genial friendship’ of 37-year-old Chief Purser Hugh McElroy.
As Francis Browne walked across the gangway, he turned to photograph the cliff-like sides of the
Titanic. Three of the windows to Bruce Ismay’s private Promenade, on the left, are open. Many of
the C Deck portholes are also open. In the distance, Second Class passengers can be seen
boarding on C Deck, and several crew gangways are visible at the wharf level.
Chief Purser McElroy on the Olympic mere months before his transfer to Titanic.
McElroy had been with the White Star Line since 1899, when he had
joined the Majestic. He had married in 1910, and had been promoted to the
prestigious position of Olympic’s Chief Purser in June of the previous year.
Now he had been promoted again, to Chief Purser of the Titanic.
36 Being a
ship’s purser was a demanding job. Being Chief Purser of the company’s
flagship was a tremendous responsibility, as the Chief Purser ran the entire
Victualling Department of the ship. All passenger interaction went through
him, and keeping even the fussiest of passengers happy during a crossing they
had paid a great quantity of money for was entirely his responsibility. Was the
meal in the Saloon for some reason not up to par? Had one of the stewards or
stewardesses been perceived as boorish? Perhaps the passenger’s beds were
too springy, or there weren’t enough pillows, or the temperature of their cabin
was too warm, or too cold, or … well, the list of potential complaints during
any crossing just went on and on.
Everything in caring for passengers’ needs and wants had to be seen to by
the Chief Purser, and every situation had to be handled with graciousness,
delicacy and tact. Good pursers befriended their passengers, got to know their
likes and dislikes, even made special arrangements to cater for their every
whim. It was his job to know his passengers’ needs and wants before they
knew them, whenever it was possible to do so. Some of the finest Chief
Pursers were even followed by passengers, who would literally make their
travel arrangements around his sailing schedule.
It is obvious, then, just how important Chief Purser McElroy’s role was in
making passengers happy during Titanic’s maiden voyage. The maiden sailing
day of the world’s largest and most luxurious liner must have been
particularly demanding for him, but he seemed to take it all in stride. Francis
Browne and his friend certainly seemed to be quite pleased with McElroy’s
amiable service. Soon they were happily on their way – camera, bags, and
other paraphernalia in hand – to find Browne’s cabin: A-37. The Enquiry
Office was on C Deck, so the cabin would logically have been up two decks,
but … where from there? Browne admitted that he and Brownrigg were
‘really “at sea” ’ as they hunted for the elusive stateroom.
First Class passenger Frederick Hoyt c. 1920.
First Class passenger Jane Hoyt c. 1920
A publicity pamphlet to show the wonders of the Olympic and Titanic, which were both still under
construction at the time it went to press. The final statement on the back cover (in the lower left
corner) specifically mentions that ‘as far as it is possible to do so, these two wonderful vessels are
designed to be unsinkable’.
White Star ticketing agents liberally used the term ‘unsinkable’ to reassure potential passengers
who were nervous about sailing on such a new ship. However, definitive claims about the
unsinkability of crack liners of the period were not uncommon.
Waylaying a steward, the pair asked where A-37 could be found. The
steward also seems to have been rather perplexed, and could only reply,
‘That’s somewhere aft, Sir.’ Heading aft, the two men finally found the cabin
on the starboard side of the aft First Class Entrance, at the top of the aft Grand
Staircase on the starboard side. Thomas Andrews’ own stateroom, A-36, was
just across the foyer on the port side. Interestingly, Browne’s early-date deck
plans, issued in December of 1911, did not show either A-36 or A-37, which
had been late additions; Browne later had to mark them in on his copy.
37
Browne thought the stateroom was ‘large and very prettily furnished’. It
even had a private bathroom attached, something of a novelty even on the
world’s grandest ship. Once all of Browne’s accoutrements had been
deposited in the cabin, the two men decided to head out to explore the ship
together, at least until such time as the ‘All ashore who’s going ashore’
warning was sounded and Brownrigg had to disembark.
38
One of the married couples embarking that morning was 38-year-old
Frederick Hoyt and his 31-year-old wife Jane. The couple hailed from New
York, New York, but had departed for an extended holiday the previous
November. During the course of their trip, they had visited Mediterranean
ports, and then traveled on to Paris and eventually London. They had decided
to sail home on the Titanic, but ‘not solely because of the fact that it was the
maiden voyage of the empress of the seas’. Instead, it was ‘because Captain
Smith was a personal acquaintance, as was also Dr William F. N.
O’Loughlin’.
39
First Class passenger Henry B. Harris.
First Class passenger Irene Harris.
Second class passenger Sidney Collett.
This photo, taken about 1920, shows the Olympic’s Second Class gangway open. Passengers line
the windows of the Enclosed Promenade on C Deck.
Other passengers boarding that morning were a bit nervous about taking
passage on the Titanic. Among these was thirty-five-year-old May Futrelle,
who climbed aboard that morning with her husband, 37-year-old Jacques. The
couple had not initially planned to take the Titanic, having booked passage on
the Adriatic. But when they were delayed, they were forced to cancel passage
on the smaller White Star liner. Then they decided to take the Mauretania, but
Mrs Futrelle ‘had heard that the turbines of those fast boats made a
disagreeable vibration. The Titanic was sailing on her maiden trip. We
thought it a good adventure to go on her.’ However, on Tuesday afternoon, as
they were finishing their packing, Lily was seized with nervousness. ‘I’m a
little afraid,’ she told her husband. ‘This boat is new. She has never been tried
out.’
‘Don’t you ever worry about that,’ Jacques replied. ‘She’ll never be so
safe again as on this trip. They’re out for a record in every way. Besides,
those big boats are practically unsinkable.’
On sailing day, however, Mrs Futrelle’s nerves were still a little edgy. ‘In
case of trouble’, she asked her husband, ‘whom do they save first?’
Mr Futrelle responded humorously, ‘They save the first-class passengers.’
‘Just after’ boarding the Titanic, however, Jacques and May made a
pleasant discovery – one which may have helped to distract May from her
worries. They bumped into Henry and Irene Harris, a married couple with
whom they were previously acquainted. Forty-five-year-old Henry Harris
was a theater manager from New York. His wife was then 35 years old. While
the Harrises occupied cabin C-83, Mrs Futrelle was ‘delighted to find that
they had a stateroom in the same entry with ours – amidships on the starboard
side of C deck.’ Over the course of the voyage, the Futrelles and the Harrises
‘were much together’.
40
Another couple boarding as First Class passengers was Edwin and Susan
Kimball. Forty-two-year-old Edwin was the President of the Hallet & Davis
Piano Company of Boston, Massachusetts. The company traced its roots all
the way back to 1835, and was one of the most prestigious American piano
companies of the period.41 His wife, Susan Gertrude, was then 45 years old.
The Boston couple was returning from a nearly five-week vacation to some of
the most interesting places in Europe.
The Kimballs were acquainted with a number of other First Class
passengers who also boarded that morning. Among these were 37-year-old
Richard L. Beckwith and his wife, 46-year-old Sarah ‘Sallie’, as well as
Sarah’s 19-year-old daughter Helen Newsom. Sarah had been previously
married and actually had two children, but when her first husband passed
away, she had married Richard. Sarah’s son William was not traveling with
them. At the time, young Helen Newsom was being pursued by 26-year-old
tennis star Karl Behr. Helen’s mother had been trying to throw a bit of cold
water on the budding relationship, and had taken Helen with them on a tour of
Europe. Behr, however, was most determined, and had concocted a ‘business
trip’ to Europe. He would be joining the Titanic in Cherbourg and was
determined to continue his relationship with Helen during the trip home.
The Second and Third Class Boat Train had left Waterloo Station before
that for First Class. Twenty-five-year-old Sidney Clarence Stuart Collett was
on this earlier train, as he was booked in Second Class aboard the Titanic.
The young man’s family hailed from North London, but little by little had
begun to emigrate to other areas. His brother Thomas left first, moving to
Syracuse, New York, in 1904. His parents, Reverend and Mrs Mawbey
Collett, moved to Port Byron, New York – slightly west of Syracuse – six
years later. By 1912, only Sidney and his brother Ernest were left behind in
London.
Collett had made arrangements to attend a theological seminary in Liberty,
Missouri, and was planning to pay a visit to his parents in Central New York
before completing his journey. After attempting to book passage aboard the St
Louis and Philadelphia, both of which had been laid up due to the coal strike,
he had happily found that he could book on the Titanic for the same price. As
he boarded the Boat Train from Waterloo, he carried in his hand a brand new
walking stick; he had just purchased it the previous day as a sort of final
souvenir of England. He was being accompanied by his paternal uncle for the
journey down to Southampton. Of the train trip, he recalled a brief delay: ‘At
the very start there was trouble. The train stopped because somebody had
interfered with the brake valve.’42
Second Class passenger Ellen Walcroft remembered that the special train
to Southampton departed London at 8:30 that morning, and arrived at the
Southampton Dock at 10:15.43 Meanwhile, 42-year-old Second Class
passenger Father Thomas Byles took this same Boat Train, and wrote that
evening that he had arrived at Southampton at 11:30 a.m., only about a halfhour before sailing time.
44
Nineteen-year-old William John Mellors was also traveling as a Second
Class passenger. Mellors was from London, and had been serving as the valet
for Sir Frederick Schuster. In 1912, having saved up some money, he was
emigrating to New York, for better work and opportunities at a country club
on Staten Island.45
Second Class passengers Imanita Shelley, Lutie Parrish, and Lawrence Beesley.
Also boarding that morning were 25-year-old Imanita Shelley and her
mother, 59-year-old Lucinda ‘Lutie’ Parrish, who were also traveling home to
the United States as Second Class passengers. Imanita was from Deer Lodge,
Montana, and her mother was from Woodford County, Kentucky. Mrs Shelley
had taken ill while overseas, and had just left a hospital in London prior to the
voyage. She was still not feeling well.
Unlike most passengers who boarded the Titanic, Imanita and her mother
were far from impressed with their accommodations. Both believed that they
had booked ‘the best second [class] cabin’ but when the steward led them
down below ‘what seemed to be thousands of feet to the bowels of the ship’,
they began to have concerns. Their fears were confirmed when the steward
opened their cabin door. Mrs Shelley and Mrs Parrish were deeply
disappointed to find that the cabin was significantly smaller than what they
had thought it would be. Imanita said it was ‘a cell, I cannot call it a cabin’.
She said that there were two bunks and a washstand, no carpeting, and ‘no
room to open my steamer trunk at all. If we were outside of our berths, one of
us had to go out into the passage in order to allow the stewardess to come in.’
Imanita complained to the steward, saying that they ‘had not purchased any
such accommodation at all’, and that their ticket called for the best Second
Class cabin on the ship. The steward retorted that the ticket said no such thing,
but Imanita insisted that he check with the purser to see if there had been a
mistake. The steward spoke with Chief Purser McElroy, who sent Imanita a
message saying that this was the cabin their ticket called for, but that if there
had been a mistake, ‘he would be unable to rectify it until after the ship had
reached Queenstown and the passengers from that port had been taken aboard.
Then he could check up the list and find out.’ Imanita and her mother
begrudgingly made due in the meantime.
46
Another group traveling in Second Class was the Hart family. Fortyseven-year-old Benjamin Hart was a talented carpenter from the London
suburb of Ilford whose business had fallen on hard times. He had decided to
move his family – comprised of his 48-year-old wife Esther and 7-year-old
daughter Eva – to Winnipeg, Manitoba, in Canada to make a fresh start. The
move was rather hastily plotted out, and they had bid a tearful farewell to
their friends and family, having booked passage on the Philadelphia.
However, the ongoing coal strike had caused the cancellation of a number of
sailings, including the sailing of the Philadelphia. Many travelers’ plans were
disrupted as a result. However, the Harts were reassigned passage aboard the
much larger Titanic. Benjamin Hart, for one, was not about to complain, as he
was very keenly interested in the Titanic. Esther Hart, however, had been
apprehensive about the trans-Atlantic voyage from the start, and found no
comfort in their upgrade.
The family arrived at the docks on the Second Class Boat Train that
morning, and Benjamin Hart led them toward the ship. He stood there, looking
up at her proud, confidence-inspiring profile, and beamed as if he owned the
liner. ‘There! old girl’, he said, trying to ease his wife’s nerves, ‘there’s a
vessel for you! You’re not afraid now.’ Esther tried to squelch her nerves and
summon her confidence as the family boarded the ship.47
Lawrence Beesley was a 34-year-old former teacher from Dulwich
College. Beesley had been married in 1901 to Gertrude MacBeth; at the time,
he was 23, and she was five years his senior. The couple had a son, Alec, in
1903. Sadly, Gertrude had died in 1906 from a form of tuberculosis. Beesley
had booked into Second Class aboard the Titanic, and was on his way to visit
his brother in Toronto, Canada. Some of his friends had taken passage on the
Olympic within the past year, and they had heartily recommended her as ‘a
most comfortable boat in a seaway’. Knowing that some improvements over
Olympic had been incorporated into the Titanic, Beesley had decided to
indulge in the ‘novelty’ of taking passage on the ‘largest ship yet launched’.
Lawrence Beesley rides a stationary bicycle in Titanic’s First Class Gymnasium. The lady beside
him has been identified as a friend who came down to see Beesley off, but who was not taking
passage. The pair pose gamely for photographers.
Nineteen-year-old Second Class passenger Lillian Bentham demonstrates one of Titanic’s pieces of
gym equipment.
Beesley had stayed overnight in a Southampton hotel, and as he had eaten
breakfast that morning, he could see ‘the four huge funnels of the Titanic
towering over the roofs of the various shipping offices opposite, and the
procession of stokers and stewards wending their way to the ship.’ Beesley
boarded the liner at 10:00 a.m., along with a couple of friends from Exeter
who had come to see him off.
The barriers between First and Second Class areas of the ship were open
at the time, and Beesley and his friends spent time inspecting ‘the various
decks, dining-saloons and libraries; and so extensive were they that it is no
exaggeration to say that it was quite easy to lose one’s way on such a ship.’
While they were in the Gymnasium on the Boat Deck, Beesley hopped on to
one of the stationary bicycles. Just then, Gymnasium Instructor Thomas W.
McCawley came in with a pair of photographers from the Illustrated London
News. McCawley insisted that the group stay on the equipment while they
were photographed using it; just then still other passengers entered the
Gymnasium. McCawley ‘ran here and there, looking the very picture of
robust, rosy-cheeked health and “fitness” in his white flannels, placing one
passenger on the electric “horse” and another on the “camel”, while the
laughing group of onlookers watched the inexperienced riders vigorously
shaken up and down as he controlled the little motor which made the machines
imitate so realistically horse and camel exercise.’48
Another Second Class passenger who boarded that morning was Miss
Susan Webber, aged 37. Traveling with six individuals from her home town of
Holsworthy, Devonshire, Miss Webber was traveling to Hartford,
Connecticut, to visit her nephew Charles and his wife. Once she had boarded
the liner that morning, the seasoned trans-Atlantic traveler was thoroughly
impressed with the Titanic’s luxurious Second Class accommodations. ‘I have
been on beautiful boats’, she said, ‘but never one so beautiful.’ She
remembered seeing ‘thousands’ of people gathered at the waterfront to
witness the steamer’s first departure. ‘Never was there a crowd more merry,
or a ship which seemed so proud’, she said of the scene.
49
Also traveling in Second Class was 48-year-old Miss Ellen Toomey.
When she boarded that morning, Miss Toomey was bound for her home in
Indianapolis, Indiana. Originally born in Kilcornan, Limerick Ireland, she had
eventually immigrated to Indianapolis, where she found work as a servant.
Both of her sisters, one of whom was married, also lived in Indianapolis.
Just before the Christmas holidays of 1911, Ellen Toomey had obtained a
leave of absence from her employers, and returned to Ireland to visit her
mother – a trip that her sisters made several times before. Once her stay with
her mother was complete, Ellen toured through England, and intended to sail
back to America on the New York. However, when the New York’s voyage was
canceled due to the coal strike, she transferred her passage to the Titanic. She
found herself in a cabin with three other women: 32-year-old Mrs Rosa
Pinsky, originally from Poland but then living in Brooklyn; also 40-year-old
Elizabeth ‘Bessie’ Watt and her 12-year-old daughter Robertha ‘Bertha’ Watt.
Mrs Watt’s husband, James, had preceded the family in moving from
Aberdeen, Scotland, to Portland, Oregon.
50
Also boarding was Miss Elizabeth Dowdell. She had booked passage as a
Third Class passenger aboard the Titanic. The 30-year-old housekeeper from
Union Hill, New Jersey, had in her care 5-year-old Virginia Emanuel. Young
Virginia was the daughter of opera singer Estelle Emanuel, who had recently
signed a six-month performing contract in England. As a result, young Virginia
was being sent back to stay with her grandparents in New York, and had been
placed in Elizabeth’s care for the trip. Their morning was a bit stressful.
Elizabeth recalled:
We were delayed on [the] special train to reach the Titanic in the time
we had planned, and feared we would miss it. However, we arrived
just in time for the gateman to remark, “You’re lucky to have caught
it.”
Once they were aboard, they found that they would share a cabin during the
voyage with 24-year-old Amy Stanley. Amy had worked as a servant in
Wallingford, Oxfordshire. She was on her way to New Haven, Connecticut, to
take up new work as a children’s maid.51
Among the actual passengers, there were also a number of visitors who –
although they were not there to see friends or relatives off – took the
opportunity to come aboard, as well. For most of the public, this was the first
such opportunity since the vessel had docked in Southampton a week before.
There were plenty of people enthused enough about the ship to make the trip
to the waterfront, or perhaps even up the gangplank.
In amongst the visitors was noted marine artist Norman Wilkinson. Since
he was acquainted with Captain Smith, he reasoned that he might just be able
to obtain a tour of the ship, and he brought a friend aboard with him. They
asked a Quartermaster at the top of the gangway about Captain Smith’s
whereabouts, and the crewman obligingly took them to the Captain, who was
then in his cabin. Captain Smith gave Wilkinson a warm welcome, but had to
admit that he was too busy to conduct them on a personal tour of the liner.
Instead, he asked one of the pursers to show them around. Wilkinson thought
the tour was ‘thorough’, but perhaps the highlight of the expedition came in the
First Class Smoking Room. There he paused to admire the artwork over the
mantelpiece in its finished location. Entitled ‘Plymouth Harbour’, it was his
handiwork, one of a pair of commissions; the other, a scene of New York
Harbor, was in the same location over the Smoking Room fireplace of the
Olympic.
52
Another non-passenger visiting the ship that morning was a man named
Ernest Townley, and he engaged in a couple of hours’ tour of the liner. He
said that:
… on board the Titanic one felt as safe as if one were sitting in the
Savoy or the Cecil Hotel, with thousands of tons of concrete for
foundations. She was so much larger than one even expected; she
looked so solidly constructed, as one knew she must be, and her
interior arrangements and appointments were so palatial that one
forgot now and then that she was a big ship at all. She seemed to be a
spacious regal home of the princes.
Olympic’s trio of First Class Elevators. Olympic and Titanic were not the first liners to offer this
feature, but they were still quite the novelty at the time, and very much impressed Ernest Townley.
In the First Class Smoking Room, he sat on a leather-covered settee, toasting
his feet by the fire under Norman Wilkinson’s painting. Perhaps Townley and
the artist even passed each other in the crowd as Wilkinson himself toured the
ship? The spacious Smoking Room ‘spoke of wealth, refinement, luxury. It
was a place for millionaires of taste and millionaires of beauty.’
From the Boat Deck Townley looked down at the trio of liners lying tied
up at the north end of the dock, which looked like mere toys compared to the
great ship he stood upon. He went below to the Dining Saloon on D Deck:
There were scores of tables for parties of from two to eight. I recall a
sensation of thick pile carpets, spotless napery, glittering silver, and
countless flowers; and you entered by wide door-ways from the large
crush room [Reception Room] where the guests gathered before and
after meals.
He watched passengers writing letters to friends and family in the Reading &
Writing Room on A Deck, and watched as ‘women in beautiful clothes, who
moved with a conquering air of possession’ also sampled the ship’s wonders.
Not to be missed was a ride in the electric lifts. Townley even had a peek at
Second and Third Class portions of the ship.
The degree of comfort in the third-class quarters was as surprising as
were the more luxurious surroundings of the millionaires. Most of the
third class passengers I saw on board were fair-haired, happy looking
Scandinavians. The first and second-class seemed all to be English or
Americans, and I was told that many more Americans would be
picked up at Cherbourg.
Perhaps most exciting – and perhaps late in his tour, since the ship was
positively buzzing with noise and activity – he even managed to get a peek
inside the cutting-edge technology in the Marconi shack:
You entered by a cool, white passage, closed the white door behind
you, and there you sat in a quiet, white enameled Marconi cell,
seemingly as much cut off from the rush of the world as if you were in
a Trappist monastery.
Then the young operator placed his hand affectionately on a
mysterious apparatus, and said, ‘This will send a message five
hundred miles across the Atlantic in daytime and fifteen hundred miles
at night.’ He opened another white enameled door and showed me the
dark inner room where the marvelous boxes of Marconi wizardry
were compactly arranged. He had some new piece of wonder-working
mechanism which, I think he said, the Titanic alone among ships
possessed.
He pulled a handle, and the bluish sparks cracked and spat fire.
‘At night’, he said, ‘we shall only be out of touch of land for a few
hours. Soon after we lose touch with Europe we shall gain touch with
America.’53
Meanwhile, an Irish newspaper correspondent for The Irish Times had also
found his way aboard the ship, and he – like Townley – toured the First and
Third Class spaces. He was thoroughly impressed with the Gymnasium on the
Boat Deck, where he watched Instructor McCawley fuss over passengers who
happened to stop by about an hour before sailing time:
On one side a lady was having a camel ride and recalling the delights
of the Pyramids; in another corner there was a bicycle race; many
passengers took their own weights on the automatic chairs, and some
had a spin on the mechanical rowing machines.
54
Just forward of the Gymnasium, on the Bridge, the Titanic’s senior officers
met with Captain Smith, Captain Clarke, and Captain Steele. The ship’s
officers made their official status reports to the effect that the ship was ready
to sail. Captain Smith and Captain Clarke finished their paperwork up tidily.
Within these documents, it was shown that the Titanic was then drawing 33
feet 8 inches of water forward, and 34 feet, 4 inches of water aft, giving a
mean draft of 34 feet 0 inches.
55 Captains Clarke and Steele then went ashore,
their jobs complete.
As the morning progressed, Pilot George Bowyer stepped back aboard the
decks of the Titanic. As soon as the ship was completely ready, he would be
taking charge of the task of bringing her out of Southampton waters and to the
open sea. Coal smoke was beginning to waft from the funnels – the stokers
were building a full head of steam in the Boiler Rooms below – and it was
obvious that the ship would be departing quite shortly. Charles Lightoller
recalled that as ‘“zero” hour drew near, so order could be seen arriving out of
chaos.’56
Titanic’s Gymnasium. This was a busy scene on that Wednesday morning.
First Class passenger Major Arthur Peuchen.
First Class passengers Bess and Trevor Allison.
At about 11:30–11:40 a.m. on that ‘fine day’,
57 52-year-old Major Arthur
Godfrey Peuchen boarded the liner. Although married and with children,
Peuchen was traveling without his family. He was a seasoned Atlantic
traveler, with business interests on either side of the ocean. Peuchen lived in
Toronto and at his mansion on Lake Simcoe; he owned a yacht, which he
named Vreda, and was closely involved with the Royal Canadian Yacht Club
in Toronto. His family came from railroad interests, but Peuchen was the
President of the Standard Chemical Company.
On this day, he was boarding with several prominent individuals from
Montreal, Canada. There was 55-year-old Harry Markland Molson, greatgrandson of the John Molson who had founded the Molson Brewing Company;
Peuchen had convinced Molson, who was finishing up a business trip, to
delay his departure from England and take passage on the Titanic. There were
also 30-year-old Hudson J. C. Allison and his 25-year-old wife Bess. The
Allisons’ two children, 2-year-old Helen Loraine and 11-month-old Trevor,
were closely in tow. The children were being looked after by 22-year-old
Alice Cleaver, and the Allisons’ maid, 33-year-old Sarah Daniels, was close
at hand.
Peuchen had several other friends aboard for the trip, as well, including
55-year-old Charles M. Hays of Montreal. Hays was the President of the
Grand Trunk Railway; he was involved in building a number of crack hotels
in Canada, including one in Ottawa named Château Laurier, which was set to
be opened on April 26, just over two weeks hence. Also acquainted with
Peuchen were Hugo Ross and Thomson Beattie of Winnipeg, as well as
Thomas McCaffry of Vancouver, and several others. For Peuchen, this trip
was nothing unusual, as this was to be his fortieth crossing of the Atlantic.
Once he had boarded on the morning of that ‘fine day’, he found his way to his
cabin, C-104. Most of his friends, he discovered, had cabins on A Deck.
58
At 11:45 a.m., fifteen minutes before the scheduled sailing time, the bells
clanged, and there came cries of, ‘All ashore!’ throughout the ship. Streams of
visitors said their good-byes and descended the gangplanks. Ernest Townley
disembarked the liner and stared up at her enormous bulk, towering over the
quay. ‘Her size suggested rock-like safety’, he thought, and he abstractly
wondered how she would behave in a gale. Francis Browne’s friend Tom
Brownrigg bade farewell and returned to the quay, while Browne himself
ascended to the starboard side of the Boat Deck amidships to watch the
departure play out.
Thomas Andrews took the opportunity to say good-bye to Thomas
Hamilton and others who were not to be accompanying the ship on the maiden
voyage. His spirits were high, and he said: ‘Remember now and keep Mrs
Andrews informed of any news of the vessel.’59
Most of the off-duty stokers who had decided to go ashore after the muster
were back on board already, many of them not daring to cut things too fine.
There were a few stragglers, however. When Able-Bodied Seaman William
Lucas boarded at ten minutes to twelve – he was cutting things a mite close –
he saw that ‘all the gangways were up’ except for the one that he used.60
Second Class passenger Sidney Collett had found his way safely aboard
the liner. He had been met in Southampton by his aunt on his mother’s side of
the family. Collett was standing at the port side rail, looking down at his aunt
and uncle in the crowd on the dockside, and he noticed that his aunt was
‘beckoning vigorously’ to him. A little confused, he turned in the direction she
was indicating, and saw a young lady looking at him. She turned out to be a
friend of his extended family, 26-year-old Marion Wright.
61 Miss Wright was
on her way to the United States to be married to her longtime sweetheart,
Arthur Woolcott, who had immigrated to the State of Oregon, in the United
States. Collett considered this long-distance ‘introduction’ by his aunt as a
charge to keep Miss Wright under his protective care during the upcoming
voyage.
62
The Titanic’s officers made their way to their departure stations. Chief
Officer Wilde was at the head of the Forecastle, overseeing the crew working
the mooring lines. Second Officer Lightoller was a bit further aft on the
Forecastle, working under Wilde’s direction. At the opposite end of the ship,
First Officer Murdoch was on the Poop Deck, in charge of the mooring lines
there. Assisting him was Third Officer Pitman, who stood by the telephone
and telegraphs on the Stern Docking Bridge. Fourth Officer Boxhall was on
the Bridge, seeing to giving orders on the telegraphs and keeping the ship’s
log filled in. Fifth Officer Lowe was inside the Wheelhouse, working the
telephones. Sixth Officer Moody was below, at the head of the last gangway
connecting ship with shore. It was astern on E Deck, located just off the main
crew thoroughfare, Scotland Road.63
Just after noon, the massive triple-toned whistles atop the forward two
funnels sounded their breathtakingly-loud cry three times, signaling that the
Titanic was about to depart. A last knot of straggling firemen rushed along the
pier toward their ship. Among these was Leading Fireman Percy Pugh and his
brother, Steward Alfred Pugh, who both managed to make it up the gangplank
in time.
Another group of six crewmen were also rushing down the docks. Fireman
John Podesta and his friend William Nutbean were with Alfred, Bertram and
Tom Slade, three brothers, and a trimmer named Penney. The group had gone
to the pub at Newcastle Hotel, leaving there at 11:15 a.m.; they next
proceeded to a second pub, called The Grapes, for another round. However,
the group had ended up staying there for a little too long, leaving at only
11:50. They were coming down the pier when a train approached, about to
cross their path. Podesta and Nutbean decided to cross the tracks before the
train passed, but the Slades and Penney held back until it had passed.
Podesta and Nutbean made it up the gangway and past Sixth Officer
Moody; Moody then ordered the gangplank withdrawn from Titanic’s side,
and it had gotten about a foot from the side of the ship when a 16-year-old R.
C. Lawrence turned up. Lawrence had been sent aboard that morning to
deliver typewriters to the Purser’s Office; he had ended up staying to tour the
ship, and couldn’t find his way to a gangway when the ‘All ashore’ bells were
sounded. ‘Amid protestations on my part and vocabulary which was
unprintable, the officers instructed the ABs to pull in the gangway’, he said.64
Once the gap had been closed, Lawrence hurried down the gangplank to
shore.
It was about then that the Slades and Penney arrived, having waited for the
lengthy train to pass before crossing the tracks. By this time, Moody had
apparently had enough nonsense for one day. Lawrence Beesley watched the
ensuing scene unfold from his vantage point, most likely from the Second
Class Open Promenade on the port side of B Deck, where a large number of
Second Class passengers had gathered to watch the departure. He observed as
a …
… knot of stokers ran along the quay, with their kit slung over their
shoulders in bundles, and made for the gangway with the evident
intention of joining the ship. But a petty officer guarding the shore end
of the gangway firmly refused to allow them on board; they argued,
gesticulated, apparently attempting to explain the reasons why they
were late, but he remained obdurate and waved them back with a
determined hand, the gangway was dragged back amid their protests,
putting a summary ending to their determined efforts to join the
Titanic.
65
Perhaps Moody believed that being left behind from a good berth would teach
the men a lesson in punctuality that they would not soon forget, and that they
would not repeat their mistake. Maybe he felt that the men were not reliable
enough to wait for; after all, there were a number of standby crewmen already
aboard the ship who could be engaged in their place, and some of these were
signed on. Whatever Moody’s thinking, the tardy crewmen were left high and
dry as the last gangway was pulled ashore.
66
The tugs begin to ease the Titanic away from Berth 44. A single line connects the liner to shore,
and it is about to be cast off. The port side Emergency Boat, No. 2, has been temporarily cranked
in. It is possible that this was done to increase visibility aft from the port side Bridge wing.
A detail view of the previous photograph, showing Chief Officer Wilde on the Forecastle. He is
just to the right of the anchor crane, with his hands clasped behind his back.
A bevy of tugboats approached the Titanic and were made fast to help
ease her away from the pier and into the main channel. With the final
gangways disconnected, but the two shell doors on E Deck astern not yet
closed, the order came down from the Bridge to cast off, separating the ship
from shore completely. Men on the docks were informed of the order via
megaphones and whistle signals. At least one of the men on the dock held a
megaphone with which to call back to the departing liner. The men on the
dock slipped the mooring lines off the bollards and cast them into the murky
water between the dock and the ship’s side one by one.
The tugs began to ease the liner away from Berth No. 44. The crewmen
aboard the ship – working under the supervision of Chief Officer Wilde at the
bow and First Officer Murdoch at the stern – began to haul up the lines, which
would not be needed again until the liner had reached New York and the time
came to tie up at Pier 59. Chief Officer Wilde stood by the anchor crane at the
bow. With his hands clasped behind his back, he watched the crewmen
kneeling on the deck next to him, coiling the lines neatly for storage. Finally,
only one lengthy line connected the port side Forecastle to the pier, and soon
it was cast off and hauled aboard, as well.
Francis Browne, standing on the starboard Boat Deck amidships, had no
idea that the ship had cast off until he looked down and saw one of the tugs on
the starboard side straining at the line, pulling the ship straight away from the
berth. He snapped a photo of the tugs and then crossed over to the port side of
the Boat Deck, taking a photo of the crowds on the dock below.
First Class passenger Elmer Taylor recalled:
We sailed about noon. That 45,000 ton steamer … was a huge mass to
move. Lines were cast off, and tugs pulled us away from the quay until
we were fairly in the clear.
67
Francis Browne stood on the starboard Boat Deck, just aft of Boat No. 7, and snapped this
photograph looking toward the liner’s bow. It is interesting to see that Emergency Boat No. 1, like
its counterpart on the port side, was cranked in during these docking maneuvers.
As Titanic pulled away from the wharf and moved forward toward the River Test, Francis Browne
walked to Titanic’s port side Boat Deck. Looking back toward the wharf, he took this view.
Although in shadow, a close inspection shows that the state of the tide is well below peak.
The tugs slowly maneuvered the Titanic forward until she was clear of the
docks, and gently turned her to port until she was pointed down the River
Test. The maneuvers needed to be made cautiously to avoid an incident. As
the Titanic was drawing an average of 34 feet 0 inches of water, and four
further inches beyond that at the stern, and as the tide was not anywhere near
its peak, there was very little room between the Titanic’s hull and the bottom
of the river.
Although no band had been engaged to play from the docks, as had been
the case with the Olympic’s maiden departure the previous year, there was
music being played that afternoon. Turkish Bath Stewardess Annie Caton
remembered the scene as the ship cast off:
A large crowd had gathered on the pier to watch the ship leave her
moorings, and as she began to move cheers rolled out across the
waters.
The ship’s band was playing a lively tune on deck. Passengers
leaning over the rails waved farewell greetings to their friends, and
gave answering cheers.
68
Second Class passenger Lawrence Beesley recalled that as the Titanic moved
slowly down the dock, it was …
… to the accompaniment of last messages and shouted farewells of
those on the quay. There was no cheering or hooting of steamers’
whistles from the fleet of ships that lined the dock, as might seem
probable on the occasion of the largest vessel in the world putting to
sea on her maiden voyage; the whole scene was quiet and rather
ordinary, with little of the picturesque and interesting ceremonial
which imagination paints as usual in such circumstances.
69
Second Class passenger Susan Webber remembered things a little more
festively, saying, ‘Steamers and tugs tooted goodbye.’ One observer on shore
that morning remembered:
It is doubtful whether the Olympic has ever cleared the new dock in
such a splendid manner as did the Titanic on this occasion. From the
moment she began to move from her berth in that dock she was under
absolute control, and she passed out of the dock not only majestically,
but also smoothly and calmly. If anything she was proceeding more
slowly than the Olympic usually does, and she turned her nose
towards the sea with the greatest of ease.
70
Ernest Townley was among the spectators on the quay watching the Titanic
depart. He said that ‘the great vessel moved in slow majesty down
Southampton water … She looked so colossal and so queenly.’
Passengers waved fare-wells from her decks and windows – she has
large, square windows high up, as well as portholes lower down –
and a mob of jolly stokers yelled from the forecastle side. One of
these – he must have been a Cockney – played a mouth organ and
waved his old cap. He seemed a merry soul then …71
Stewardess Sarah Stap recalled that she and the other members of the crew
‘were all so radiantly happy together when we left Southampton … There was
no ceremony whatever when we moved off from the pier.’72 Stewardess
Violet Jessop recalled that the Titanic cast off gently, and then slipped away
gracefully and full of hopes ‘over the din of send off – goodbyes, fluttering
flags and handkerchiefs.’ As the tugs escorted the ship, they tooted their
whistles, while simultaneously the farewells from the dock grew fainter.
73
The tugs turned Titanic around the knuckle at the pier’s edge, and then the
liner was pointed southeast in the main body of the River Test, more or less
parallel with the Berths 38–41, which were numbered in descending order
from north to south. The quay which housed Berths 38–41 ran roughly southsoutheast, while the opposite shore of the river, across from Berth 38, moved
roughly east-southeast. These two land formations formed a tapering gap, just
over a half-mile wide at its narrowest point, through which the river flowed.
The deep water channel was located closer to the northern shore than to the
southern shore, meaning that Titanic needed to ‘hug’ the line of quays to a
certain extent. Meanwhile, smaller traffic moving up river would pass along
Titanic’s southern, starboard side.
This spectacular photo from the wharf shows Titanic beginning her turn into the River Test. Her
helm is ‘hard to starboard’ in order to help aid the tugs in the maneuver.
This map shows the approximate location of the deep water channel in the River Test.
The Titanic turns into the River Test.
The tugs guide the ship further into the River Test.
In order to see the Titanic pass, quite a few individuals had assembled
farther on down the 2,000-foot long face of the quay. A number had even
scrambled aboard the idled liners Oceanic and New York – which were tied
up alongside one another at Berth 38, at the very end of the quay – hoping to
get a front-row view of the new White Star liner as she passed. Oceanic was
tied up directly to the dock, and New York was tied to the White Star liner,
with both ships pointing down-channel. The Titanic and her escorting flotilla
began to approach the Oceanic and New York.
First Class passenger Colonel Archibald Gracie.
First class passenger Isidor Straus.
First Class passenger Rosalie Ida Straus.
Standing together on the Titanic’s decks as the liner moved parallel to
Berths 38–41 was a pair of First Class passengers: 54-year-old Colonel
Archibald Gracie IV, and an elderly gentleman, 67-year-old Isidor Straus.
Straus’s 63-year-old wife Rosalie Ida had already left the deck, but the two
men remained together, watching the departure.
74 Colonel Gracie was from an
old Southern family, and his father had died during the Civil War, fighting for
the Confederacy. Gracie was independently wealthy, and lived in Washington,
D.C. Only a few months before, he had a book published; entitled The Truth
About Chickamauga, it told of a Civil War battle that his father had played a
role in. Gracie was married, and the couple had four daughters. Two of the
girls had died very young, and a third had perished in an elevator accident in
1903. The fourth daughter, Edith, was alive and well, then about eighteen
years of age. Edith was a very attractive young woman who had made her
debut in Washington Society the previous fall, along with five other
Washingtonian young ladies.
75
Gracie’s health was poor; he was a diabetic and had fought the disease for
eight years. The years of constant work on his first book had taken a toll on
his health, and he had undergone an operation several months before. He had
decided to take a trip to Europe, partly to recuperate, and partly to delve into
research for an article about the War of 1812. He was traveling without his
wife and daughter, and it was his first extended separation from them.
76
The Strauses were also very interesting individuals. Both were originally
from Germany, Isidor from Bavaria, and his wife from Worms. During the
Civil War, he had engaged in blockade running while working as an agent for
the purchase of supplies with the Confederate Government Commissioners.
He had played a role in the founding of a New York importing firm called L.
Straus & Sons.
77
Isidor and his brother Nathan had become involved with the
R. H. Macy’s department store – which had been established in 1858 on New
York City’s Sixth Avenue between Thirteenth and Fourteenth Streets – in the
year 1874. Isidor had become a partner of the company in 1888, and by 1896,
he had become its owner.
78 When not running a department store, Straus had
served in the House of Representatives for the Fifty-Third United States
Congress, and had a personal friendship with President Grover Cleveland.
Additionally, he and Ida had seven children, one of whom had died in infancy;
the pair was virtually inseparable, and even after so many years of marriage,
it was obvious that they were very much in love.
79 The couple was just
returning from a trip to Jerusalem.
Colonel Gracie was speaking with Mr Straus when the Titanic began to
near the New York and Oceanic. Isidor Straus was pointing the New York out
to Gracie, telling her that he had been on that vessel’s maiden voyage in 1888,
when she was known as the City of New York and flew under the flag of the
Inman Line. Back then – it seemed to him that it was just a few years before –
the New York was known as the ‘last word in shipbuilding’. What progress
had been made in the last twenty-four years, Straus observed.80
First Class passengers Jacques and May Futrelle were watching the
departure with interest. May recalled:
Because this was the Titanic’s maiden trip our departure was a great
occasion. The wharves and the decks of the Olympic [sic, Oceanic]
and New York, which lay in port, were crowded with people, who had
come to see us off. They cheered and saluted as we pulled out: our
band played: a band from shore answered.81
At that point, not all of the attending tugs had cast off, but some – like the tug
Vulcan – had let go, and Captain Gale was maintaining a close proximity to
the ship as she moved parallel to the quay. He was about to move in to pick up
the few remaining standby crewmen who had not disembarked at Berth No.
44.
From the Bridge, Pilot Bowyer had ordered the Titanic’s engines engaged
at ‘Slow Ahead’. Chief Engineer Joseph Bell, down on the Starting Platform
in the Engine Room, had promptly opened up the steam lines. The engines,
powerless up to that point in the departure, began to come to life, turning the
two outboard props – but not the central propeller driven by the turbine – with
gathering momentum.
82 Their building force was immediately obvious to
everyone on board the liner and ashore. Passenger Elmer Taylor recalled:
The signal was then given to go ahead. Those powerful engines began
to pile water up astern, creating a swift current, more than the entire
length of the steamer, without perceptibly overcoming the inertia of the
great mass.
83
The correspondent for The Irish Times had watched the liner depart, standing
amid the crowds gathered on the quay. Suddenly, among ‘the crowds still
waving handkerchiefs there was a sudden silence. The gigantic triple
expansion engines had begun to work.’ So far, things had proceeded much
better than with Olympic’s maiden voyage the previous year, when that liner
had to be brought out stern-first and then turned down the River Test.
However, what happened next nearly ended the maiden voyage before it
began.
‘Directly the huge screws of the Titanic began to revolve’,
84
the reporter
from The Irish Times recalled, they began to build up a powerful and complex
series of forces in the confined waters on the northern side of the deep-water
channel. The force began to exert an irresistible influence on the American
liner New York, and the result was both immediate and shocking. Lawrence
Beesley said that …
… as the bows of our ship came about level with those of the New
York, there came a series of reports like those of a revolver, and on the
quay side of the New York snaky coils of thick rope flung themselves
high in the air and fell backwards among the crowd, which retreated in
alarm to escape the flying ropes. We hoped that no one was struck by
the ropes, but a sailor next to me was certain he saw a woman carried
away to receive attention. And then, to our amazement the New York
crept towards us, slowly and stealthily, as if drawn by some invisible
force which she was powerless to withstand … On the New York there
was shouting of orders, sailors running to and fro, paying out ropes
and putting mats over the side where it seemed likely we should
collide.
85
This three-dimensional map shows the stages of Titanic’s departure and her near-collision with the
New York. The arrows indicate the reversal of Titanic’s engines and then the resumption of her
course after the crisis had passed. The New York was warped into Berth No. 37.
The stern of the New York, having broken loose from its moorings, is drawn toward the stern of
the Titanic.
May Futrelle recalled:
Jacques and I stood by the rail nearest the New York as we got
headway. Suddenly we saw the New York shiver and move, then her
cable nearest us snapped, and the stump whipped back on deck,
knocking over some people. I saw her begin to swing toward us.
Jacques shouted: “Hold fast for the shock!” I gripped the rail.
86
First Class passenger Major Arthur Peuchen said:
There was considerable excitement on those boats on account of the
snapping of their mooring lines, but there was no excitement on ours,
the Titanic. There was also excitement on the wharves when the larger
ship commenced to snap one or two of her moorings.
87
Up on the port Boat Deck of the Titanic, Francis Browne heard five sharp
reports of the New York’s hawsers snapping ‘like thread’. From his right, up
forward on the Bridge, there came the sound of the telegraph handles jangling.
In response, the throb of Titanic’s engines ceased completely. However, the
dominoes were already set in motion, and the New York’s stern continued its
arc toward the Titanic’s after port flanks.
The Irish Times’ correspondent, standing on the quay, watched as the
American liner’s stern, loosed from its moorings, began to swing around into
the channel, directly toward the stern of the Titanic. Ernest Townley had
started to leave the waterfront once the Titanic had turned the corner and
begun to proceed downstream. He hadn’t made it a hundred yards before ‘the
magic of the Titanic’ drew him back. He began to walk down the quay, and
saw ‘with great amazement’ as the suction of Titanic’s propellers dragged the
New York from her berth. Her ‘stout hawsers … [had] snapped like string
under the strain.’
One of the two officers at the stern of the Titanic called out to Captain
Gale of the tug Vulcan via megaphone. He ordered Gale to proceed to the port
side stern of the Titanic. Meanwhile, the engine order telegraphs on the
Bridge of the Titanic rang out again, and the liner’s port engine was reversed.
Captain Gale saw that the port engine was engaged in reverse as he came
around the port side. Someone, he never knew who, called out to him to get
between the onrushing stern of the New York and the stern of the Titanic, and
to push the powerless American liner back. Gale immediately dismissed this
idea as madness, preferring not to have his tug crushed into kindling between
the giant steel hulls. Instead he proceeded to get a line on the port stern of the
New York. Although that line immediately parted under the strain, he quickly
got a second one attached, and began to drive his tug at full power, trying to
slow and then stop the American vessel’s stern-first dash at the Titanic.
Up on the Boat Deck of the Titanic, the man standing beside Francis
Browne said: ‘Now for a crash.’ Browne ignored the remark, held his camera
far over the bulwark rail, pointed down and aft, and snapped a photo of the
New York’s stern closing on the Titanic. To Second Officer Lightoller, who
was then forward, a collision looked ‘inevitable’.
88
 To May Futrelle, standing
braced for whatever would happen next, ‘it seemed certain’ that the two
vessels would collide.
89 Thomas Andrews thought that the ‘situation was
decidedly unpleasant.’90
However, all was not lost. Between the reverse wash from Titanic’s port
propeller and the frenzied attempts of the tug Vulcan, the New York stopped its
forward advance. Captain Gale later swore that by that point there were only
four feet separating the two hulls. Titanic Saloon Steward John ‘Jack’
Butterworth thought that the two ships were so close that one could have
tossed a penny onto the New York from the Titanic.
91 Meanwhile, the Titanic
herself began to move astern, and a delicate ballet of enormous steel vessels
and tugboats ensued, with the Titanic backing straight up the channel, and the
tugs trying to make sure that her motion did not cause the New York to start
toward her afresh.
Beesley remembered watching the New York, with the Vulcan trailing
behind, as she ‘moved obliquely down the dock, her stern gliding along the
side of the Titanic some few yards away.’ May Futrelle watched this turn of
events, being ‘only a little frightened’ as the New York’s counter stern passed
alongside and then out ahead of the Titanic’s bows. Francis Browne ran over
to the starboard side of the Boat Deck, and took a photo looking forward,
showing the New York’s stern swinging out ahead of the Titanic’s bow, her
hawsers trailing limply in the water. Meanwhile, Major Peuchen recalled that
the Titanic had come to rest, and was ‘simply standing still’.
92
This photo, taken by Francis Browne, looks aft along the port side of the Titanic from the Boat
Deck. The stern of the New York is perilously close to striking the White Star liner. Passengers
and crew on the larger vessel lean out over the rail or through Promenade Deck windows to watch
the scene unfold. To take this picture, Browne held the camera over the midships bulwark rail.
The Vulcan begins to pull the New York away from the Titanic.
The whole thing had been a tremendously close shave. Pilot Bowyer and
Captain Smith – the same men who had been in command of the Olympic the
previous fall during the affair with the Hawke – no doubt breathed a
particularly deep sigh of relief at avoiding similar unpleasantness on this day.
Ashore, Ernest Townley said that the incident was ‘astounding. It gave one an
eerie fear of the greatest steamer in the world.’93
Indeed, some aboard the
ship took the event as a very bad sign. First Class passenger Norman
Chambers recalled it as an ‘evil omen’.
94 Others took it completely in stride.
Second Class passenger Charlotte Collyer said that the incident ‘didn’t
frighten anyone, as it only seemed to prove how powerful the Titanic was.’95
Jacques Futrelle turned to his wife and laughed, now that the danger was
behind them. ‘Well’, he said jocularly, ‘she got that out of her system,
anyway!’
96
Two tugs took the errant New York under their lead, and ‘between the two
of them they dragged her round the corner of the quay which just here came to
an end on the side of the river’, Beesley recalled. The New York was tied up
at the extreme southern edge of the Eastern Docks. This was only a temporary
berth for her, as the strip of dock was only about 470 feet in length, and the
New York was nearly a hundred feet longer than that. This meant that her
clipper-style bow protruded from the eastern edge of the dock. Meanwhile,
further hawsers were made fast to the Oceanic, to make sure that she did not
decide to follow the New York’s example when the Titanic resumed her trip
down the river.
With the Titanic backing up the river, the stern of the New York swung out in front of the White Star
liner, still trailing her broken lines into the water. Two tugs carefully maintain the Titanic’s
orientation in the channel, while many of Titanic’s passengers lean over the Well Deck bulwark to
see the New York.
Once the Oceanic and New York were squared away, the Titanic resumed
her down-river journey. Then she paused, and the tug Vulcan nudged along the
after port quarter of the liner. It took some minutes for the standby crewmen,
who had not disembarked earlier, to board the tug through the after gangway
on E Deck. Once this task had been completed, the Titanic resumed her
forward progress for the second time that afternoon. Elmer Taylor recalled:
When the mild excitement of a collision ceased and the consequent
delay was over, we were finally moving with the engines barely
turning, but it wasn’t long before we were in Southampton water with
enough leeway to safely proceed at full speed.97
Ahead of the liner lay a course of about twenty-five land miles of water
before she reached the Nab Light. This navigational aid, which sat off the
eastern shore of the Isle of Wight, marked the endpoint of Southampton Water
and the starting point to the open waters of the English Channel. Although
Titanic had only just begun her maiden voyage, she was already behind
schedule.
Passing from the White Star Dock and steaming southeast down the River
Test was a relatively straightforward affair. It encompassed about an hour’s
steaming once the New York incident had been resolved and the ship’s engines
were restarted.98 For this journey, the ship was brought up to a speed of about
20 knots, and the central turbine was engaged.
Shortly after the liner’s trip down the Test had resumed, Ship’s Bugler
Peter Fletcher began to play ‘The Roast Beef of Old England,’ signaling that
lunch was being served. Francis Browne recalled that this, the first meal
served aboard the liner, was a very brief affair, as everyone was ‘anxious to
be on deck while we steamed down the channel between England and the Isle
of Wight’.
99
At the bottom of the River Test, the channel diverged to the east and
southwest, around the Isle of Wight. Although the western passage was a more
direct route to open water and Cherbourg, which was west of their current
position, that channel was not dredged deeply enough to accommodate the
White Star liner’s draught. Titanic was thus forced to take the eastern
passage, which was known as the Solent. However, the ‘reverse-S’ curve to
enter the Solent was tricky, taking about ten minutes to execute from beginning
to end. As the ship was decelerated to a speed of about 11–12 knots
preparatory to entering the bend, the central turbine was disengaged, and Pilot
Bowyer would have sounded the ship’s whistles to indicate to other traffic
that the liner was about to make a turn.
With the New York tied off at Berth No. 37, Titanic resumes its departure. The bow of the White Star
liner Oceanic can be seen at the extreme right of the image.
Titanic continues to move forward, with the Oceanic and New York visible at left. One of the tugs
maintains a position off the liner’s starboard bow.
This heavily re-touched photo is of the Titanic, although one could hardly discern this through the
artist’s ‘improvements’. The tug remains at the liner’s bow.
Looking aft from Titanic’s decks, the New York hardly fits at Berth No. 37. Her clipper bow
overhangs her temporary dock by quite some distance. The Oceanic, beside which New York had
been moored prior to the incident, can be seen behind the American liner.
This photo was taken from the edge of the wharf. New York, being pushed into Berth No. 37, can
be seen at the right side of the photo. Titanic has moved forward some distance, but is again
stopped. The tug Vulcan is alongside her aft-port quarter, ready to offload the last standby
crewmen.
Another view of the Titanic during her second stop in mid-river, offloading unneeded standby crew
to the Vulcan.
A wide-angle shot of the River Test as the Vulcan paused alongside the Titanic.
Titanic resumes her course down the Test. Lifeboat No. 1 remains cranked in, and the starboard
anchor dangles nearly to the water.
This photo, taken near Cowes, shows that the liner has decelerated from her pace down the
Solent. The anchor remains low to the water, but Boat No. 1 has now been cranked out into its
normal position over the water.
Titanic steams down the Solent in this similarly-timed view. A large number of Third Class
passengers still line the Poop Deck. A knot of Second Class passengers can be seen aft on the
Boat Deck and B Deck, as well.
The maneuver began at Calshot Spit, when the ship was steered on to a
course of about South 65° West, or west-southwest.
100 After slowing, and then
reversing the ship’s port engine while turning the helm, the Titanic would
have made the turn into the Solent in about two minutes’ time. Swinging to a
course of South 59° East,
101 or southeast by east, the ship’s engines would
then have been engaged again together, and the turbine re-engaged. Although
the telegraphs were set to ‘Full Ahead’, that speed was limited to 20 knots in
confined waters. From that point, it took about three-quarters of an hour for
the ship to reach the Nab Light, and the open water of the English Channel.
102
This photo – forward on A Deck, looking to port – was taken by Francis Browne as the Titanic
steamed through Southampton water. A lone crewman, possibly Quartermaster Alfred Olliver,
stands vigil. Browne’s young friend Jack Odell leans against the forward bulwark. In the distance,
one of the three men standing in the distance was identified as Archibald Butt.
This Browne photo, looking aft on the port side Promenade Deck, near the time Titanic made her
turn into the Solent. The steamer visible in the water was reportedly named Tagus, and was about
to take the western channel around the Isle of Wight to open water. The figure walking aft is not
Captain Smith, as is commonly thought; he would still have been on the Bridge during this series
of maneuvers.
Titanic off Cowes on the Isle of Wight, moving east through the Solent.
Second Class passenger Lawrence Beesley recalled a truly picturesque
trip down Southampton Water to the Channel:
We dropped down Spithead, past the shores of the Isle of Wight
looking superbly beautiful in new spring foliage, exchanged salutes
with a White Star tug lying-to in wait for one of their liners inward
bound, and saw in the distance several warships with attendant black
destroyers guarding the entrance from the sea.
103
Francis Browne had a rather odd experience while the ship was steaming
down the Solent, with the Isle of Wight visible off the starboard side. A
fellow passenger not known to Browne, but who he later discovered was
Jacques Futrelle, asked him: ‘Could you tell me, Sir, why is the Channel so
narrow here?’
A few moments of confusion followed. Browne at first thought that he was
referring to the forts guarding the entrance to the Spithead, and managed to
respond with: ‘I suppose when they built these forts they never calculated on
having ships as big as the Titanic.’
‘Oh, I did not mean that’, Futrelle clarified. ‘Why is the land so near
here?’
The clarification only added to Browne’s confusion. ‘Well, I suppose, Sir,
that they could not shift the Isle of Wight back any further than it is.’
Futrelle was still unsatisfied. ‘How far would you say it is from shore to
shore here, Sir?’
Browne hazarded a guess. ‘I should say about ten or twelve miles.’
‘Well, how far is it from Dover to Calais?’ Futrelle pressed.
‘Twenty-one’, Browne was able to respond smartly.
‘Why then don’t you English cross here?’ Futrelle asked.
It was at this point that Browne began to understand what all the confusion
was really about. This gentleman with the loud, penetrating voice, believed
that the Isle of Wight visible to the south was actually France, and that the
Solent was the English Channel. ‘Oh that’s not France’, Browne said, ‘that’s
the Isle of Wight.’
‘I see’, Futrelle replied. ‘I thought it was France.’ Then he walked off.
104
At the Nab Light, Titanic stood poised to begin the first open-water stage
of her crossing. Her mighty powerplant was brought up to a reading of 68
revolutions on the reciprocating engines, indicating a speed of about 20.2
knots through the water. Sixty-five nautical miles away lay the breakwater
which shielded the harbor at Cherbourg, France: her first port of call.
105 The
liner set her bow south-southwest, making a bee-line for that port as she tried
to make up for lost time. The weather on that short journey was splendid, calm
and clear if cool and overcast. The cool temperatures, as well as the breeze
on decks, prompted many passengers to procure a good steamer rug for
themselves while sitting in their deck chair; however, the conditions were not
by any means inclement or unpleasant.
Francis Browne recalled a picturesque cross-Channel passage that
afternoon. He and a number of others on board were surprised at just how
good a ship the Titanic was. Easily visible from the liner’s decks were fourmasted sailing vessels and packet boats, all of which were ‘tossing in the
choppy sea, while on the Titanic there was no indication that the ship was at
sea save the brisk cool breeze blowing along the decks, and the swiftly
moving panorama of distant coast line.’106
Many others were impressed with her behavior, as well. Just after
clearing the Isle of Wight, one passenger on the Boat Deck overheard as a
lady nearby pointed out a small three-masted sailing vessel and said: ‘Look
how that ship is rolling. I never thought it was so rough.’ The man turned and
watched the tiny little vessel, noticing that she ‘rolled and pitched so heavily
that over her bow the seas were constantly breaking’. Up on the decks of the
Titanic, however, ‘there was no indication of the strength of tossing swell
below. Were it not for the brisk breeze blowing along the decks, one would
have scarcely imagined that every hour found us some 20 knots farther upon
our course.’107
Near Portsmouth, Titanic is nearing the end of her journey to open water. She is framed nearly
perfectly by a pair of Royal Navy warships. Doubtless, these were the same warships noticed by
Lawrence Beesley.
This Browne photo, looking aft along the port side, shows Boat No. 10 behind two Second Class
passengers. The liner is near Portsmouth, and is making good speed; her wake can clearly be
seen and she has recently made a turn to port. Although the small craft is the Pilot Boat, the photo
does not actually show Pilot Bowyer being disembarked. Astern, the No Man’s Land fort can be
seen.
This map shows the approximate course of Titanic in leaving Southampton water before setting a
course for Cherbourg.
Titanic’s approximate course for Cherbourg.
This photo was taken by Francis Browne. Frequently cited as dating to Thursday, April 11, it was
more likely taken on Wednesday afternoon, as is clear from the largely overcast weather. The view
looks forward along the aft A Deck Promenade. The sliding doors to the starboard Verandah Café
are open. Above, on the Boat Deck, Second Class passengers enjoy the panorama astern.
This photo was also apparently taken on Wednesday, judging from the overcast weather. Here two
First Class passengers walk on the aft Promenade of A Deck. Since the location of the photo was
very close to the preceding one, it may have been taken at around the same time. A great quantity
of deck chairs has been stacked on the Boat Deck above. The photo is a double exposure; a very
faint view of the starboard Private Promenade can be seen.
Some passengers, particularly those who were disembarking at Cherbourg
or Queenstown, made the most of their time aboard, exploring every nook and
cranny of the ship that they could find. Others took a more leisurely approach
to the afternoon’s activities. The ship’s band played at tea in the D Deck First
Class Reception Room in the mid-afternoon, and many took the opportunity to
wind down from the excitement of boarding and departure, sip some tea, and
listen to soothing music.
Nearly everyone who heard the band play recalled that they were very
good. Even Bandmaster Wallace Hartley himself believed that their little
orchestra was a nice ensemble – and he certainly would have had reason to
complain if he did not think them up to par. Hartley was very much looking
forward to making a good amount of money during the voyage ahead – not just
from his wages, but also from the collection that was typically taken up for the
orchestra members on each crossing.
108
Among those who were taking refreshment in the Reception Room that
afternoon was Elmer Taylor. He had just entered the room when he ran across
a friend, Fletcher Fellows Lambert-Williams; Taylor referred to him simply
as ‘Williams.’109 The two men fell into conversation. Apparently, Taylor
found Miss Harriette Crosby to be quite an attractive girl; Williams was then
traveling alone, and Taylor offered: ‘I’ll introduce you to a nice looking girl,
and if you play your part, you will have a companion for the entire voyage.’117
The Titanic’s Band
The Titanic’s band was comprised of eight men. However, in point of fact the band was
divided into two separate groups. The first was a quintet led by Bandmaster and lead
violinist Wallace Hartley, who was then aged 33. There was also a separate musical trio,
who played for patrons of the First Class à la carte Restaurant. Each of the two groups
had their own list of selections from which to play. Under normal circumstances, they did
not play together; however, Hartley had direct oversight over all of the musicians.
The remaining musicians were 24-year-old pianist Theodore Brailey,
110
20-year-old
cellist Roger Bricoux, bass player John Clarke,
111
violinist John ‘Jock’ Hume,
112
violinist
George Krins, cellist Percy Taylor,
113
and 32-year-old cellist John Woodward.
The five-man band led by Hartley played daily in both First and Second Class areas of
the ship. From 10:00–11:00 a.m., they played in the Aft Second Class Entrance Foyer on C
Deck. Then they proceeded to the First Class Entrance on the Boat Deck, and played
from 11:00 a.m. to noon. At 4:00 p.m., they re-assembled in the First Class Reception
Room on D Deck to play for tea for an hour. Then they returned to the Second Class
Entrance on C Deck between 5:00 and 6:00 p.m. After dinner, they went up to the
Reception Room and played from 8:00–9:15 p.m. Finally, they went down to the Second
Class Entrance again, playing from 9:15–10:15 p.m. In all, this made for about six and a
quarter hours of performing on a daily basis, with plenty of time for meals between
stretches of performing.
The cover to a period White Star Line Music booklet.
Bandmaster Wallace Hartley, Theodore Brailey, Roger Bricoux, John Clarke.
John ‘Jock’ Hume, George Krins, Percy Taylor, John Woodward.
We know that violinist John ‘Jock’ Hume and cellist John Woodward played in the fiveman orchestra with Wallace Hartley. It would also seem that cellist Roger Bricoux played
in the trio for the Restaurant, and his Continental roots would have lent itself to the
Continental ambiance White Star was trying to create there. We also know that a pianist
would not have been needed in the First Class Restaurant trio, since unlike the Olympic, no
piano had been provided for Titanic’s Restaurant.
Beyond that, however, we have very little to go on. More than that, there is some
evidence that things were a bit flexible in their composition. For example, Second Class
passenger Juliette Laroche wrote a letter in which she mentioned that the band was
playing nearby at the time. This would normally have been the duty of the five-man band;
instead, she specifically mentioned only four players: one violin, two cellos and a piano.
114
Selections 38–120 of a later White Star Line songbook.
There is no reason to doubt this report, so where was the second violin player or the
violist at the time? Had Hume or Krins been shifted on to the trio? Was Krins seasick,
perhaps? We know that three of the players – Clarke, Krins and Taylor – had never played
on a liner before. Who was the second cello player she mentioned? We know that
Woodward was the cellist most regularly seen in Second Class, according to Kate Buss.
Was the second cellist Mrs Laroche mentioned Roger Bricoux? Possibly not. Pianist
Brailey could also play the cello, but in that case, Percy Taylor would have been playing
the piano.
Another interesting report comes from First Class Stewardess Violet Jessop, who
reported that Sunday evening, she saw Scottish cut-up Jock Hume leading the main
orchestra and playing first violin. He spoke to her ‘during the interval’ – probably a
reference to the time when they finished playing for tea in the First Class Reception Room
at 5:00 p.m., and as they were headed down to do the Second Class performance
immediately thereafter.
115 Young Hume told Jessop with a laugh that the band was ‘about
to give them a “real tune, a Scotch tune, to finish up with”.’ Perhaps he was merely
kidding with the pretty stewardess, as Hume was notoriously witty, or perhaps he was
thinking of something in particular he had in mind for the Second Class concert. It is
impossible to tell. Yet the sighting leaves the question: unless Jessop was wholly mistaken
in this recollection – which would not be an impossibility – where was Wallace Hartley?
Perhaps the composition and number of the two musical ensembles was not wholly
fixed, and there was some variance between the different performances or days of the
crossing. While one could hardly imagine that some of the eight performers would normally
have changed positions, perhaps some of the members were unable to play during portions
of the voyage due to illness or seasickness. In the end, we are left with more questions
than answers regarding the composition of the Titanic’s two bands.
What we do know is that each of them was an accomplished musician, and that some
of them were even able to play more than one instrument. Their work during the voyage
was favorably mentioned by many passengers, and their performances added materially to
the pleasant atmosphere aboard the ship as the crossing progressed.
116
‘Oh yes, how come?’ was Williams’ response.
Accordingly, Taylor walked over to the Crosbys, who were sitting not far
away, and he asked if he could introduce a friend. The Crosbys responded in
the affirmative, and suggested that they join them for tea. The conversation
over tea seemed to go very well, and the entire party was quite convivial.
They thus asked the purser for a table for six at dinner, so that they could
continue their social interaction as the evening, and the voyage, progressed.118
Even as passengers began to get acquainted with one another, the crew
was beginning to try and settle into some sort of a routine. There were a lot of
things that needed to be seen to before the crew could become a single,
cohesive entity that could perform its duties efficiently.
The ship’s lookout men were struggling with one particular curiosity.
During the trip down from Belfast, then-Second Officer David Blair had
supplied the lookouts with a pair of binoculars to use, but once the liner had
departed Southampton, it became evident that the set of binoculars had not
been made available for them again. Binoculars were not an absolute
essential in lookouts’ work of spotting things to report to the officers on the
Bridge, but the lookouts were unsure why they were suddenly doing without.
Accordingly, Lookout George Symons made a trip up to the Bridge after
departure to ask if they could have a pair; Second Officer Lightoller made
some inquiries, but did not find a pair that had been set aside for their use.
119
There were other behind-the-scenes things that needed to be tended to, as
well. For example, wholly unknown to the Titanic’s passengers, and most of
her crew, there was a problem brewing below decks: a fire in one of the coal
bunkers. In point of fact, this fire did not threaten to cause the ship to go up in
one giant plume of smoke, fricasseeing passengers while they slept; it was
wholly confined to the starboard coal bunker at the forward end of Boiler
Room No. 5.120 Bunker fires were a rather common problem on coal-fired
ships.
121 Coal stored in a bunker near a source of heat was well known at the
time to be susceptible to spontaneous combustion. In the case of the Titanic,
the fire had begun at Belfast, over a week before the liner departed on her
maiden voyage.
122
While not unheard of, leaving a coal fire unattended simply wouldn’t do.
As soon as the ship cleared Southampton, Chief Engineer Bell approached
Leading Fireman Frederick Barrett, and ordered him begin the task of
extinguishing it. By using the coal in that bunker as quickly as possible, it was
hoped that the actual source of the fire could be exposed and removed sooner
rather than later. By way of explanation, Bell said to Barrett: ‘Builder’s men
want to inspect that bulkhead.’123 Accordingly, a hose was run into the bunker,
and it was ‘going all the time’ under the watchful eye of Barrett and a team of
between eight and ten stokers.
124 Unfortunately for the men, getting to the
bottom of the pile was going to take some time. Meanwhile, the ship
proceeded across the Channel to her very first port of call …
The port of Cherbourg was located at the northern tip of a large peninsula
of the French coast which jutted north toward England. Its location was thus
ideal for cross-Channel steamships to stop over and embark or disembark
passengers. One period reference book said:
This important port is a great French naval base, and the steamer
passes the forts and anchors inside the breakwater … Cherbourg has
become the most important gateway for Americans planning a trip to
the Continent, and the principal trans-Atlantic lines include this port
now in their itineraries. The great Continental metropolis, Paris, is
only a few hours distant and lines radiate from it to all parts of
Europe.
125
A period map of Cherbourg Harbor.
First Class passenger Edith Rosenbaum.
The port was not without drawbacks, however. Passengers disembarking
there were advised that under ‘no circumstances’ should they ‘ever stop at a
hotel in Cherbourg’. It was also noted that the ‘train service to Paris is
abominable, and one steamship company threatened to abandon it as a port of
call, if conditions were not improved. It is a shame that such an ideal port
should be so badly served.’126
Passengers intending to take passage on the Titanic that evening began to
congregate in Cherbourg. The Boat Train from Paris arrived at about 4:00
p.m., bringing with it most of those who were planning to take passage on the
liner.
Among them was 33-year-old Edith Rosenbaum, a journalist with
Women’s Wear Daily. Later known as Edith Russell, she also designed her
own line of clothing for the Lord & Taylor department store of New York.
127
She had booked passage to America on the George Washington, which was
scheduled to sail on April 7, but had switched her ticket to the Titanic. Not
only did this decision net her three extra days in Paris, including Easter
weekend, but it also gave her the opportunity to take passage on the new
flagship of the White Star Line. Edith noticed that everyone was quite merry
on the Boat Train, and excitement was high over boarding the great liner and
seeing her wonders – so ably described in the press during the previous
months – first-hand.128 Upon arrival, however, the intended passengers were
disappointed to learn that the ship had been delayed in leaving Southampton.
A splendid view of Titanic entering Cherbourg Harbor.
First Class passengers Margaret Brown, John Jacob Astor IV, and Madeleine Astor.
Forty-four-year-old Mrs Margaret Brown, a wealthy socialite from
Denver, Colorado, also arrived in Cherbourg aboard the Boat Train from
Paris. She was returning to the United States rather suddenly, having received
word that her grandson was ill. Margaret – she would only become known as
‘Molly’ many years later – recalled boarding the Nomadic, ‘the tender that
was waiting to convey the hundreds of passengers to the master palace of the
sea’, shortly after leaving the train. Unfortunately, the group then had to wait
for ‘an hour or more … in the cold, gray atmosphere’ aboard the little vessel.
Only then did the funnels of the mighty Titanic – ‘the world’s greatest
masterpiece of modern ocean liners’ – appear on the other side of the harbor
breakwater. With the appearance of the vessel, there was a murmur of
excitement which ran throughout the First Class passengers aboard the tender
…
… Titanic had finally arrived.
As the liner approached the Cherbourg breakwater, passenger Francis
Browne and a number in his traveling party took the opportunity to bid
farewell to some of their acquaintances from that day who were to disembark
at the French port. They were still saying their goodbyes when the ship’s
bugler sounded the call to dinner.
129 A number of individuals, Browne
recalled, had to ask him for directions on how to find the Dining Saloon.
Eventually, at about 6:30 p.m., the Titanic dropped anchor inside the
breakwater, with her starboard side facing south, toward the city of
Cherbourg. The sky was still quite light, as sunset would not take place for
another twenty minutes, at around 6:50 p.m. The White Star tender Traffic tied
up alongside first, taking the cross-Channel mails, depositing mails bound for
Queenstown or New York, and transferring 102 Third Class passengers to the
liner.
Elmer and Juliet Taylor watched as the French port tender, apparently the
Traffic, disembarked its human cargo into the enormous Titanic. They
watched, amused, as sailors on the tender were ‘handling, or shall I say
smashing luggage and moving continental mails’. Then the couple proceeded
to dinner.
Among those boarding from the Traffic were two young Lebanese siblings
bound for Jacksonville, Florida. They were 11-year-old Master Elias NicolaYarred and his 14-year-old sister Jamilia. Their family had begun a staged
migration from Lebanon to the United States in 1904, and the two youngsters
and their father were the final members to make the crossing. They had
purchased tickets aboard the Titanic in Marseilles, but unfortunately their
father had failed to pass a physical examination due to an eye infection. As a
result, the two children were traveling alone.
130
Meanwhile, the First and Second Class passenger tender Nomadic was
steaming out to meet the Titanic. Margaret Brown, who was aboard the
Nomadic, recalled:
The tender put on steam, and after half an hour in a running sea we
were alongside the keel of the Titanic. The tossing of the small craft in
the choppy sea caused most of the passengers to be uncomfortable and
actively ill. All were chilled through.
131
Among the chilled and queasy passengers on the Nomadic with Mrs Brown
were many of the most prestigious individuals booked for the upcoming
Atlantic crossing. It may have seemed as if boarding from Cherbourg, rather
than Southampton, was the ultimate execution of being ‘fashionably late’, but
in reality it was simply a matter of convenience, as many were returning from
excursions to the Continent or even Africa.
Margaret Brown, for example, had been traveling through Egypt. While
there, she had met up with 47-year-old John Jacob Astor and his second wife,
18-year-old Madeleine. Astor was undoubtedly the richest man taking this trip
on the Titanic; the couple was returning from an extended honeymoon, during
which they had seen Egypt and Paris. Their wedding had become something of
a scandal in their American social circles, and their choice of honeymoon
travel arrangements could not have been more ideal. Not only was an
extended European and North African honeymoon extremely fashionable at the
time, but its protracted length would also – hopefully – have allowed for the
scandal to calm in their absence.
As the Nomadic steamed out across Cherbourg Harbor, darkness began to
envelop the great ship and Titanic’s lights all began to flicker to life, until she
looked like a city afloat. She was truly a magnificent spectacle. Edith
Rosenbaum watched her as the Nomadic approached the liner. She recalled:
In the dusk, her decks were 11 tiers of glittering electric lights. She
was less a ship than a floating city, pennants streaming from her
halyards like carnival in Nice. Colonel and Mrs John Jacob Astor
were standing near me at the rail. I had made the eastern crossing with
them the previous spring. The colonel pointed out some of the vital
statistics of the mammoth ocean liner …
‘She’s unsinkable’, Colonel Astor said, ‘a modern shipbuilding
miracle’.
132
Sixty-five-year-old Engelhart Ostby and his daughter, 22-year-old Helen, had
been traveling through Europe. Hailing from Providence, Rhode Island, Ostby
was a jeweler; Mrs Ostby had, unfortunately, passed away just over twelve
years before. Since 1906, he had taken his daughter with him on his regular
business trips to Europe. On this occasion the pair had been vacationing in
Egypt and southern Europe. While they were in Nice, they had caught wind of
the Titanic’s upcoming maiden voyage. After discussing the matter, father and
daughter decided to take the new liner back to the States, obtaining
reservations in First Class. Helen recalled:
We went up to Paris and while there we met two acquaintances, Mr
and Mrs Frank Warren of Portland, Ore., whom we had met in Egypt,
and who also had reservations for the Titanic.
On the 10th of April we took the boat train to Cherbourg. The
Titanic remained out in the harbor, lighted and beautiful in the night.
133
Shortly after sunset, or at about 7:00 p.m., the Nomadic tied up alongside the
towering hull of the Titanic. In short order, the passengers began to board the
great liner via a gangplank into the D Deck Entrance and Reception Room, but
the process would take quite some time. Among those climbing that gangplank
was 71-year-old First Class passenger Ramon Artagaveytia. Artagaveytia
was an Argentinean businessman returning from visiting his nephew in Berlin.
‘When we approached …, surrounded by the steam, it [Titanic] seemed like
“Rio de la Plata”.’ Looking up, he thought that she looked like a five-story
house. ‘At the entrance’, he recalled, ‘there were like fifty butlers. One of
them took my luggage, and through an elevator (there were three) we went up
to my stateroom on floor B.’
A mid-1930s view of the Nomadic at work in Cherbourg Harbor.
A heavily-retouched starboard side view of the Titanic in harbor. The original photograph was
taken in daylight, and can be seen at the top of the preceding page, but it was rendered to show
the ship after darkness had fallen.
Another heavily-retouched view of the Titanic in Cherbourg Harbor; like the preceding photo, it
was taken in daylight, but retouched to show the ship after dark.
Another trio of First Class passengers boarding that evening consisted of
49-year-old Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon, his 48-year-old wife Lady Lucy
Christiana Duff Gordon, and her secretary, 30-year-old Miss Laura
Francatelli.
134 Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon was a member of a prestigious
Scottish family, and was the fifth Baronet of Halkin. He was an athletic man,
and was revered for his fencing talents. At the 1906 Summer Olympics in
Athens, he had led the English to pick up a silver medal in the four-man Team
Épée. In so doing, he was hit only once, and came out top in scoring.
135
Lady Duff Gordon, born Lucy Christiana Sutherland, was the daughter of a
Toronto civil engineer, and the older sister of authoress Elinor Glyn. Lucy had
married James Wallace in 1884, and had a daughter, Esme, the following year.
The marriage was not a happy one, however, with both husband and wife
regularly seeking solace in extramarital affairs. They were divorced in 1893,
and this situation – being a divorcée with a young daughter – forced Lucy to
find a way of supporting herself. As she had always had a penchant for
fashion, she became a dressmaker, working from her home. She was so
successful that she eventually opened a shop in London, and became known as
‘Lucille’. She had married Sir Cosmo in 1900, adding an air of old-world
respectability to her personal reputation. Her business continued to expand,
becoming ‘Lucille, Ltd’, and she had just recently opened branch shops in
New York City and Paris. ‘Lucille’ lingerie, tea gowns and evening wear
became quite popular with the stars of the stage, and of the emerging ‘silver
screen’.
Sudden and pressing business in New York had prompted Lady Duff
Gordon to book passage on the first available ship. A couple of days before
the sailing, she had traveled down to the White Star offices to see what
offerings they might have. The booking clerk had told her that the only berths
he had were on the new Titanic.
‘Oh, I should not care to cross on a new ship. I should be nervous’, she
replied, though the seasoned trans-Atlantic traveler wasn’t exactly sure why
the idea made her uneasy.
The clerk laughed at her trepidation. ‘Of all things, I should imagine you
could not possibly feel nervous on the Titanic’, he said. ‘Why the boat is
absolutely unsinkable. Her water-tight compartments would enable her to
weather the fiercest sea ever known, and she is the last word in comfort and
luxury.’ Finally, he added: ‘This first voyage is going to make history in ocean
travel.’
Still unconvinced, Lady Duff Gordon did not immediately book passage.
Instead, she returned home and told her husband of her unease. At first he
laughed at her, thinking that she was joking. Then he had realized that she was
in earnest, and so he offered to join her on the voyage. Her fears somewhat
soothed, she had returned to the ticket office and booked passage for them
both – under the name Mr & Mrs Morgan – as well as for her secretary, Miss
Francatelli.
136
After the trio boarded, they found their way to their accommodations. Sir
Cosmo was booked into cabin A-16, while his wife would be staying across
the passageway in A-20. Miss Francatelli – or ‘Franks’, as Lady Duff Gordon
referred to her – would be staying below in E-26. While it might at first strike
one as unusual for the Duff Gordons to have been staying in separate rooms,
each of the cabins was listed as a single-berth room, with only a narrow bed.
Although each could accommodate a second passenger on a sofa berth if
necessary, booking two cabins directly across the passageway from each
other would give each of the Duff Gordons much more room to get
comfortable. Each of their cabins had a pair of windows overlooking the
enclosed port side Promenade Deck. Lady Duff Gordon was particularly
pleased with her stateroom. ‘My pretty little cabin, with its electric heater and
pink curtains, delighted me,’ she later recalled.137
For others who boarded from the Nomadic, there was less trepidation
about the voyage than there was excitement, as well as thoughts of returning
home after an extended absence. The Thayers, from Haverford, Pennsylvania,
were another notable family boarding that evening. Forty-nine- year-old John
B. Thayer was the Second Vice-President of the Pennsylvania Railroad; his
wife Marian was 39 years old, and the family had four children: John B. III,
Frederick, Margaret and Pauline. Young John ‘Jack’ Thayer was then only 17
years old, and had been attending school in England. When he graduated, his
parents and Mrs Thayer’s maid Margaret Fleming had crossed to England to
meet up with him; the family had done some traveling through Europe, and
were headed for their Pennsylvania home.
First Class passenger Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon.
First Class passenger Lady Lucy Duff Gordon
Olympic’s stateroom A-16, a near duplicate of the room Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon had during
Titanic’s voyage. His wife’s room, although laid out differently, would have been of similar style.
First Class passengers John B. Thayer, Marian Thayer, Jack Thayer, and George Rheims.
A 1917 view of First Class passenger Karl Behr.
First Class passenger R. Norris Williams in 1918.
George Alexander Lucien Rheims, 36, and his brother-in-law Joseph
Loring, 30, also boarded from the Nomadic as First Class passengers.
Rheims, who was president of an importing company in Paris dealing with
millinery and silk goods, was traveling to New York City. Rheims’ business
required him to travel to America and back twice a year. Loring had
originally been booked to sail to America on the Carmania, but Rheims had
convinced him to change his ticket to the Titanic at the last minute.
138
Twenty-eight-year-old Edgar Meyer and his 25-year-old wife Leila were
also boarding the liner at Cherbourg. Edgar Meyer was a graduate of Ithaca,
New York’s Cornell University. After college, he moved to New York City,
and had become a successful businessman. About two and a half years
previously, he had married Leila Saks, daughter of Andrew Saks, founder of
Saks & Co. – known more widely today as Saks Fifth Avenue. They had a
one-year-old daughter, Jane, who had not made the European trip with them.
In a strange twist, Andrew Saks had died on Monday, April 8, 1912, and the
couple was hurrying home to attend his funeral.
139
Twenty-six-year-old tennis star Karl Behr was joining the Titanic for
happier reasons. He had quite literally chased young Helen Newsom – who
had sailed on the Titanic with her mother and stepfather, Richard and Sarah
Beckwith – across the Atlantic. Behr fully intended to continue his courtship
of Helen Newsom during the crossing.
Another tennis star boarding the Titanic at Cherbourg was Richard Norris
Williams II, then 21 years old. The Geneva, Switzerland, native had intended
to travel to the States for a summer of tennis, and then to see if he could get
into Harvard. He was making the trip with his father, 51-year-old Charles D.
Williams, a lawyer.
Forty-three-year-old First Class passenger Isaac Frauenthal was a lawyer
from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, with a practice in New York City. He was
boarding the liner with his brother, 49-year-old Dr Henry Frauenthal, and the
doctor’s 42-year-old wife Clara. Isaac Frauenthal was a little trepidatious as
he boarded the Titanic that evening. He had a dream shortly before sailing
which had disturbed him. In the dream, he seemed to be on a ‘big steamship
which suddenly crashed into something and began to go down’. He didn’t pay
much attention to the dream, as he was ‘not at all superstitious or given to
belief in the supernatural.’ However, when the dream was repeated before he
boarded the ship, it gave him pause for thought, and he became ‘a little
worried’. Frauenthal hadn’t told his brother or sister-in-law about the dreams
by the time the trio boarded the ship, perhaps thinking himself a little foolish
for his nervousness. Still, he couldn’t shake the unsettled feeling.
140
Few others boarding that evening felt so apprehensive. Elmer Taylor
recalled:
Sailing day is usually given over to unpacking, making the cabin
homelike, getting the lay of public rooms, trying to determine fore and
aft, port and starboard, studying the passenger list, getting the feel of
the ship, picking out landmarks and shipping as we sailed …
The first day out, many passengers are so exhausted with farewell
parties and preparations for the voyage they do not dress for dinner.
The Taylors remembered their dinner companions with fondness. Elmer
wrote:
It was an agreeable party. The Crosbys had been traveling through
Europe, making London their last stop. They were Milwaukee people.
He [Captain Edward] owned and operated the Crosby Line steamers
on Lake Michigan. We had much in common, and I was not
disappointed to learn that he was not John D., as I thought, when I first
saw him. He was interested in Diesel engines, in mechanics and
business. The young lady [Harriette] had been abroad to finish her
musical education – a perfect model for a magazine cover, attractive,
vivacious, with a good modulated voice. Mother [Catherine] was
rather “high hat”, I thought – one of those tourists who flaunt their
social position.
141
Sitting not far away from the Taylor and Crosby clans in the Dining Saloon
that night were Francis Browne and his companions. Sitting at a table for
eight, Browne recalled that they were able to watch through the windows
overlooking the Reception Room as the new arrivals boarded from the
Nomadic; it was quite an active scene, and occasionally he could hear the
‘busy hum of work as the luggage and mails were brought on board’.
142
Edith Rosenbaum, who had stepped aboard from the Nomadic, recalled
boarding an elevator and speaking with a young Lift Steward who was
operating the equipment. The young man said that he felt very honored to have
such a position on the mighty Titanic, particularly so because of his age.
143
Meanwhile, Thomas Andrews was watching the Nomadic and Traffic at
work. He wrote to his wife that night:
We reached here in nice time and took on board quite a number of
passengers. The two little tenders looked well, you will remember we
built them about a year ago. We expect to arrive at Queenstown about
10.30 a.m. tomorrow. The weather is fine and everything shaping for a
good voyage. I have a seat at the Doctor’s table.
144
After the commotion of new passengers boarding from Cherbourg had died
down a bit, someone at Francis Browne’s dinner table remarked: ‘I wonder
have we started yet.’ Everyone around the table stopped their conversation,
intently listening for any sound of engines, but there was no apparent vibration
or throb indicating that they were operating, so they all agreed that the ship
could not have started yet.
Just then, a Saloon Steward, who had overheard their conversation,
leaned in and informed them: ‘We have been outside the breakwater for more
than ten minutes, Sir.’145
In all, some 172 First and Second Class passengers had boarded at
Cherbourg, in addition to 102 Third Class passengers, for a total of 274. At
the same time, some fifteen First Class and nine Second Class passengers
disembarked at the French port. Many items of mail, cargo and luggage were
also moved off the ship and onto the tenders. The process had taken quite
some time – about an hour and a half from when the ship had first stopped.
She finally weighed anchor at about 8:10 p.m. and steamed past the
breakwater, bound for her next port of call: Queenstown, Ireland.
Thirty-six-year-old Mrs Eleanor Cassebeer had just boarded from the
Nomadic as a First Class passenger. She was traveling without her husband,
but was a veteran Atlantic traveler with ten crossings under her belt. After
boarding, she proceeded to the Purser’s Office on C Deck. Her first order of
business was to see if she could upgrade her cabin. She had originally booked
the cheapest First Class accommodations, as she was taking the trip on
something of a budget.
As she got into line at the Enquiry Office, she apparently wasn’t paying
much attention to her surroundings, for she nearly ran into a fellow First Class
passenger, 30-year-old Benjamin Foreman. Foreman stepped back and
graciously told Mrs Cassebeer to go on ahead of him. They got behind a
Jewish passenger who, Mrs Cassebeer thought, was taking an interminable
time getting his seat assignment in the Dining Saloon. She whispered back to
Foreman: ‘I hope I don’t get next to that Jew.’ Foreman smiled but didn’t say
anything.
The Traffic.
This map gives an approximate idea of Titanic’s course from Cherbourg to Queenstown.
The Olympic’s Enquiry Office on C Deck later in her career.
First Class passenger Eleanor Cassebeer.
When she finally arrived at the counter, Chief Purser Hugh McElroy was
ready to help her. First order of business: she asked if the accommodations
couldn’t be improved for a few pounds. McElroy did a little digging, and
upgraded her to a D Deck stateroom near that of Henry S. Harper and his wife
Myna.
146 Mrs Cassebeer also inquired about her seat assignment in the Dining
Saloon. She playfully asked McElroy if she couldn’t get a seat at the Captain’s
table – a highly coveted spot on all trans-Atlantic liners.
First Class passengers Elmer and Juliet Taylor.
A 1915 photo of First Class passenger Mahala Douglas.
McElroy affably told her: ‘I’ll do better than that’, and assigned her to his
own large table for ten or twelve.
147
Newly-embarked passengers in all three classes began to get themselves
settled in for the night. They began to familiarize themselves with the ship’s
layout even as passengers boarding in Southampton that morning had. Many of
them headed for the Dining Saloons for a late supper.
Among those who had just boarded the ship from the Nomadic as First
Class passengers were 50-year-old Walter Douglas and his 48-year-old wife
Mahala. Mrs Douglas remembered:
We left Cherbourg late on account of trouble at Southampton, but once
off, everything seemed to go perfectly. The boat was so luxurious, so
steady, so immense, and such a marvel of mechanism that one could
not believe he was on a boat …148
First Class passenger Arthur Gee had spent some time looking over the ship
since boarding that morning. He wrote in a letter that night:
In the language of the poet, “This is a knock-out.” I have never seen
anything so magnificent, even in a first class hotel. I might be living in
a palace. It is, indeed, an experience. We seem to be miles above the
water, and there are certainly miles of promenade deck. The lobbies
are so long that they appear to come to a point in the distance. Just
finished dinner. They call us up to dress by bugle … Such a dinner!!!
My gracious!!!
149
After dinner, the ship’s band sprang into action in the D Deck Reception
Room, which many passengers simply referred to as ‘the lounge’. Among
those present was Francis M. Browne and members of his party. As they and
other passengers …
… sat in the beautiful lounge listening to the White Star orchestra
playing the “Tales of Hoffman” and “Cavalleria Rusticana” selections
more than once we heard the remark: “You would never imagine you
were on board a ship.”150
No matter how enthused passengers were over the ship and its wonders,
eventually the exertions of the day caught up with everyone. Many were tired;
beyond that, a number of the passengers later said that they were completely
exhausted. Eventually, the concert wound down, passengers began to drift off
to their cabins and staterooms throughout the ship, and sailing day officially
began to wrap up.
Overnight, the Titanic’s engines were built up, from the 68 rpm made
during the trip to Cherbourg up to 70 rpm; this indicated a speed of about 20.7
knots through the water.
151
 As the ship had been late in departing Cherbourg, it
is clear that the trip over to Queenstown had to be made at a very good speed;
considering the fact that the she was then working on steam from only twenty
of her twenty-nine boilers, this was quite a respectable showing.
152
Overnight, the liner steamed generally west and north-west. At midnight, the
ship’s clocks were set back 25 minutes from Greenwich Mean Time to match
Dublin Mean Time (DMT). Dublin Mean Time encompassed Queenstown, the
Titanic’s next port of call.
153
Day Two – Thursday, April 11, 1912.
Dawn came at about 5:40 a.m. Greenwich Mean Time, or 5:15 a.m. Dublin
Mean Time, the time to which Titanic’s clocks were then adjusted.154
 At about
that time the Titanic was steaming between Land’s End, in Cornwall, England,
and the Scilly Isles, having turned approximately north-northwest on her
course toward Queenstown. The weather was good, if windy, and the seas
were spirited. Yet it was recalled:
After a windy night on the Irish Sea, when the sturdy Packet boat
tossed and tumbled to her heart’s content … the lordly contempt of the
Titanic for anything less than a hurricane seemed most marvelous and
comforting.
155
During the morning …
… when the full Atlantic swell came upon our port side, so stately and
measured was the roll of the mighty ship that one needed to compare
the moving of the side with the steady line of the clear horizon.
156
Francis Browne recalled getting up early to make his way around the ship
with his camera in hand. He captured a lovely view of the sky as the sun rose
through broken cloud cover. Then he took photos of passengers engaged in
their morning activities aboard the ship: the wake washing out from the liner’s
starboard side as the liner sliced through the seas; Jacques Futrelle on the
Boat Deck outside the Gymnasium; Thomas McCawley at the rowing machine
just inside; even a snap of Harold Bride hard at work in the Marconi Room.
Lawrence Beesley recalled that the passage across the channel was ‘most
enjoyable … although the wind was almost too cold to allow of sitting out on
deck on Thursday morning.’157 Some people preferred to explore the ship’s
interior spaces, which were warmer. Jacques and May Futrelle were among
these; they ‘went over the whole ship’, exploring the liner’s amenities. One
thing that May noticed is that some workmen were still installing the doors to
the First Class Café Parisian on B Deck.
158
Elmer Taylor also took the opportunity to explore the ship with his friend
Fletcher Williams:
The ship, as a whole, revealed the result of generations of skill, labor,
and ingenuity … By one means or another, engineering skill had
stepped up travelers’ comfort to an a la carte restaurant, Turkish
electric and swimming baths, gymnasiums, squash racquet courts,
clothes pressing, cleaning and laundry, lounge, reception rooms,
passenger elevators, palm court, electric heaters, real beds (not
bunks), hot and cold running water, paneled white walls and ceiling,
custom-made upholstered armchairs, wardrobes – well, what else
could one want?
The brother of my esteemed friend Clarissa Smith had suggested it
might be interesting to scrutinize the woodwork, paneling, carvings,
etc., throughout the public rooms, the disposition of interior space and
disguises used to create a homelike feeling, a hotel life atmosphere,
while getting away from steamer consciousness inside the ship and
enhancing life at sea on decks.
Williams and I nosed about … We were particularly impressed
with a new type davit, the apparent ease of launching life boats
accommodating as many as eighty people by simply turning a crank
until the life boat was level with the deck, an additional assurance of
efficiency in emergencies – a really great improvement over that old
type davit which made it necessary to lift the life boat by rope tackle
and shuttle it back and forth until it was in position to lower to the
edge of the deck.
We admired the especially designed custom-made furniture, the
floor coverings, wall decorations, palms and semi-tropical plants, the
huge fat green pillows in the Music Room …159
This photograph was taken Thursday morning by Francis Browne. Titanic is steaming in the
vicinity of Land’s End, and it is clear from the S-shaped wake that she has made a serpentine
course.
This photograph shows Frederic Spedden looking on as his son Robert Douglas Spedden spins a
top on the aft Promenade Deck on Thursday morning.
Francis Browne spent only one night in this cabin, A-37, which was on the opposite side of the aft
First Class Entrance from Thomas Andrews’ cabin, A-36. He took this photograph on Wednesday
before sailing time; his friend Tom Brownrigg can be seen in the mirror.
Francis Browne held his camera over the A Deck bulwark rail on the starboard side to get this
photograph. Looking forward, the ship is slicing powerfully through the sea toward Queenstown.
This photo shows Harold Bride hard at work in the Marconi Room Thursday morning.
A Thursday morning photo of Titanic’s Gymnasium. Instructor McCawley demonstrates the rowing
machine. Behind McCawley, William Parr – a member of Harland & Wolff’s Guarantee Group –
tests another piece of equipment.
Outside the Gymnasium, Browne runs across writer Jacques Futrelle on the Boat Deck. Behind
Futrelle is Boat No. 7.
Titanic’s Café Parisien, looking forward.
First Class passenger May Futrelle in 1918.
Edith Rosenbaum, who had just boarded the ship the night before, was a
seasoned Atlantic traveler, and the Titanic impressed even her. From the
Squash Court and Gymnasium to the Turkish Bath and Swimming Bath, the
ship seemed to offer everything imaginable. ‘There was a lounge larger than
that of the Grand Hotel, a complete hospital with operating rooms, bedrooms
larger than any Paris hotel room, suites with private promenades …’ The
amenities seemed endless to her.
160
Thirty-year-old Philipp Mock was similarly impressed. He and his sister,
35-year-old Emma Schabert, had boarded the previous night in Cherbourg.
Mock thought that the Titanic was ‘without question the finest boat that ever
was afloat and that she was so large passengers almost lost the idea that they
were on board ship. She was so huge that there was no rolling or pitching, she
seeming to keep an even keel all the time.’161
Forty-six-year-old Mrs Margaret Swift was traveling in First Class. She
had boarded the ship at Southampton with her friend, 49-year-old Dr Alice
Leader – who, like Mrs Swift, was traveling without her husband. In an era
when female doctors were not extremely common, Mrs Leader worked in a
practice in New York City, with her husband John. The pair was also
traveling with a married couple, the Kenyons, 41-year-old Frederick and 31-
year-old Marion. Margaret Swift and Alice Leader shared cabin D-17, while
the Kenyons occupied the cabin directly across the hall, D-21. To Mrs Swift,
their stateroom was ‘a magnificent room with two four-poster beds’. Beyond
how much she liked their stateroom, she was also thoroughly impressed with
the Titanic, recalling that the vessel ‘was one of the finest I ever saw; so
solid, so large, and so luxurious in every appointment.’162
By late morning, the coast of Ireland appeared on the horizon ahead of the
great steamship. Lawrence Beesley recalled:
The coast of Ireland looked very beautiful as we approached
Queenstown Harbour, the brilliant morning sun showing up the green
hillsides and picking out groups of dwellings dotted here and there
above the rugged grey cliffs that fringed the coast.
163
Ramon Artagaveytia took the opportunity to write to his brother Adolfo of his
experiences aboard. He thought his B Deck stateroom was ‘very good’. It had
an electric heater, which he had left on all night to ward off the cold. ‘I visited
what I could of the steamer: its different rooms, and today to find this room to
write in – there were more than two, it cost me to know. The dining rooms are
painted in white, and some rooms like this one have carved wood (I think it’s
oak) with lounges and chairs covered in rich and elegant jade green velvet.’
He recalled that the ‘food is very good with an abundance of dishes’. Looking
out through the window, he realized time was short if he was to post the letter
and have it taken off with the other mails at Queenstown. ‘Now I see land
close by, Ireland, so I end this letter leaving you all my memories and
hugs.’164
Artagaveytia wasn’t the only one to drop a line to family with the
Queenstown mails. Chief Officer Wilde, who had only reluctantly accepted
the post of Chief Officer of the Titanic, wrote in a letter to his sister: ‘I still
don’t like this ship … I have a queer feeling about it.’165
When the Titanic reached the entrance to Queenstown Harbour, between
Roches Point on the east and Church Bay on the west, the ship paused to
rendezvous with the Harbour Pilot, and he clambered aboard. Under his
careful direction, the ship ‘ran slowly towards the harbour with the soundingline dropping all the time, and came to a stop well out to sea, with our screws
churning up the bottom and turning the sea all brown with sand from
below.’166
It was at about 11:30 a.m. according to Titanic’s shipboard clocks
when the liner finally ceased her forward progress and dropped anchor.
167
She was about two miles from shore at the time.
From the wharf at Queenstown, the two tenders Ireland and America had
already taken their cue and begun their short journey to meet the Titanic. As
the Titanic was slowing to a stop, the America was already approaching her
from the starboard side. A gangway door on E Deck forward on the starboard
side had been opened to facilitate the movement of passengers and mail;
another door on the port side forward as also opened.
A 1920 photo of First Class passenger Philipp Mock.
The White Star wharf at Queenstown.
The tender Ireland at the wharf.
The America circled around the ship and tied up along the liner’s port
side, while the Ireland tied up to starboard. Aboard the tenders were many
sacks of mail bound for America, and a number of passengers set to board the
liner: three First Class passengers, seven Second Class, and one hundred and
thirteen immigrants traveling in Third Class. There were also a number of
local port officials, journalists and photographers who boarded the Titanic
from the tenders. Crew and postal employees were also aboard to aid in the
off-loading of the Irish mails from the liner, and to help load her with mail
bound for America.
The Titanic entering Queenstown Harbour. She is decelerating, but has not yet stopped. The E
Deck gangway door has already been opened.
This photograph was taken from the tender America as it approached the Titanic. Third Class
passengers line the Poop Deck rails. At the top of the fourth funnel a stoker’s head can just
barely be discerned. He was covered in soot, and some of the more superstitious believed his
appearance was an ill omen.
With the America tied alongside the Titanic, a lady leans tentatively over the port side rail to get a
better view. Behind her, on the deck, is Boat No. 8, while Emergency Boat No. 2 can be seen
swung out over the water.
Second Class passenger Lawrence Beesley was watching the two tenders
with interest as they disembarked their human cargo to the Titanic. Nothing …
… could have given us a better idea of the enormous length and bulk
of the Titanic than to stand as far astern as possible and look over the
side from the top deck, forwards and downwards to where the tenders
rolled at her bows, the merest cockleshells beside the majestic vessel
that rose deck after deck above them. Truly she was a magnificent
boat! There was something so graceful in her movement as she rode up
and down on the slight swell in the harbour, a slow, stately dip and
recover, only noticeable by watching her bows in comparison with
some landmark on the coast in the near distance; the two little tenders
tossing up and down like corks beside her illustrated vividly the
advance made in comfort of motion from the time of the small
steamer.
168
One of Beesley’s fellow Second Class passengers, Miss Susan Webber, said
that ‘crowds stared in admiration’ of the great ship, even as similar crowds
had done the night before in Cherbourg.
169
While all of the passengers, luggage and mails were being transferred, a
photographer from The Cork Examiner swarmed over the liner, snapping
photos of everything he could. He caught Captain Smith and Chief Purser
McElroy on the starboard side of the Boat Deck, beside the Officers’
Quarters, and the two men obligingly paused for a photo. From aft, he took a
photograph looking forward along the port Boat Deck, and then took another
up the starboard Boat Deck, making for a nearly-identical set. He then turned
and, from his vantage point on the aft Boat Deck, photographed emigrants
lounging on the Poop Deck astern.
While the photographer snapped away, Third Class passengers were
boarding the ship and getting settled in. Amongst the Irish Third Class
passengers who came aboard that afternoon were Eugene Daly of Athlone,
and his cousin Maggie Daly. Along with them was Bertha Mulvihill, a mutual
friend from Coosan, a village three miles outside of Athlone. Eugene was a
hard-working 29-year-old man. His father, a policeman, had been killed in the
line of duty when Daly was just twelve years old. From that point on, Daly
became the head of the household, going to work in the woolen mills in
Athlone as a weaver and a mechanic.
Captain Smith and Chief Purser McElroy pause on the starboard Boat Deck and obligingly pose
for a photo.
Second Class passengers stroll along the port Boat Deck. Boats 10, 12 and 14 are visible at the
left, with the edge of No. 16 just barely peeking through the edge. A stack of deck chairs has been
placed against the raised roof over the First Class Smoking Room.
The starboard Second Class Boat Deck, showing Boats Nos 9, 11 and 13 at the right.
A photograph overlooking the stern. Third class passengers line the rail. Barely visible nearly
amidships, aft of the Stern Docking Bridge, an enterprising individual has managed to acquire a
deck chair to relax on.
Third Class passenger Eugene Daly and his uilleann pipes.
Third Class passenger Maggie Daly.
Daly’s 17-year-old sister Maggie was frail, and his mother and siblings
depended on him for financial support. In 1912, Eugene decided to seek out
better opportunities to support his family in America. Daly, a fierce believer
in Irish independence, played the uilleann pipes,
170 and was traveling to New
York City. A member of the Athlone Gaelic League band, he timed his journey
to coincide with a War Pipes competition that was to be held on May 19,
1912, as part of a Gaelic Feis in Celtic Park, Queens. While aboard the
tender, Daly played lively Irish airs.
171
Bertha Mulvihill, who had been living in America since 1906, was
recently engaged to Henry Noon of Providence, Rhode Island. She had
traveled back to Ireland aboard the Lusitania in the autumn of 1911 to
announce her engagement to her family, and to attend the wedding of her sister
Kitty. Arriving in her native country unannounced, she rode home on a jaunting
cart, waving and yelling out to everyone that she was back. She spent her
spare time gathering linens and laces for her wedding dress. In early April,
1912, Bertha was returning to her family’s home from a funeral, when she
passed by a White Star Line ticket office. On a whim, she went in: ‘I went in
and bought a ticket … without saying a word to anybody … Friday I told my
folks that I was going back to America … and I was going to Queenstown the
next morning to go aboard the boat.’ She had not contacted her fiancé in
America to let him know she was returning, as she was hoping to surprise
him.
172
Third Class passenger Bertha Mulvihill (second from left) with some friends and coworkers in front
of the Perry House in Newport.
The starboard anchor being raised. This photo was taken by Francis Browne as he disembarked
on the tender Ireland.
Second Officer Lightoller (centre) and First Officer Murdoch (right) in the E Deck gangway, with
several crewmen on the left behind them.
From the tender, this photograph was taken on the starboard side of the ship, looking up toward
the starboard Bridge wing. Boat No. 1 is clearly visible, A number of First Class passengers and
crew are visible along A Deck, while Third Class passengers are visible at the Well Deck. From the
Bridge wing, Captain Smith peers down at the tender.
When they learned that Eugene was going to America, the families of
Maggie Daly and Bertha Mulvihill placed the two girls under his protection;
he made a vow to look after their safety. Bertha was a long-term friend of
Eugene and his family. Joining the trio on their journey to America was
Margaret Rice, a widow originally from Athlone; she was returning home to
Spokane, Washington with her five children: Albert, 10; George, 8; Eric, 7;
Arthur, 4; and Eugene, 2.173
With the arrival of these Third Class passengers on that afternoon, there
was a fundamental shift in the makeup of the steerage passengers as a whole.
Those who had embarked from Southampton were primarily comprised of
English, French, Dutch, Italian and other rather exotic nationalities. This made
for an eclectic melting pot of languages and cultures. There was an Interpreter
Steward aboard, but on sailing day, he had been only one man faced with a
large crowd of confused people trying to find their way around an enormous
ocean liner. As the Irish emigrants boarded the liner, they brought with them
their own unique culture. One of the ship’s stewards recalled – no doubt with
a measure of relief – that ‘at least this lot spoke English’.
Francis Browne, the Odells and the Mays all knew that the end of their
brief journey was at hand. Even so, Browne had his camera ready. Looking
down from the port side of the Boat Deck, he took a splendid snap of the
tender America alongside the ship’s bow. Eventually, however, the time came
for him and the other members of his party to disembark. As he went down the
gangway to the Ireland, which was along the liner’s starboard side, he ran
across Purser McElroy and one of the liner’s five-man team of Postal Clerks.
‘Goodbye’, Browne said, ‘I will give you copies of my photos when you
come again. Pleasant voyage.’ Then he disembarked.174
He was one of seven First Class passengers who left the ship; in addition
to the Odells and Richard and Stanley May, Emily Nichols from First Class
also disembarked. Unbeknownst to nearly everyone, one of Titanic’s
crewmen, Stoker John Coffey, decided to ‘jump ship’ at that point. He snuck
onto the tender and hid among the sacks of mail until the tender had left the
liner’s side. Also disembarking were the visiting dignitaries, port officials
and members of the press.
When all was said and done, after the exchange of passengers and the
desertion by the single crewman at Queenstown, there were some 2,208 men,
women and children aboard the Titanic for the trans-Atlantic trip. This
number was divided among 891 members of the crew and officers, 324 First
Class passengers, 284 in Second Class, and 709 in Third Class.
175
The entire process of debarking and embarking passengers, cargo, and
mail at Queenstown had taken about two hours. Shortly after 1:30 p.m. the
liner raised anchor, telegraph bells from the Bridge jangled, and her engines
sprang to life once again. As the tenders pulled away, and the Titanic resumed
her voyage, Eugene Daly, dressed in his kilt and full regalia, stood on the
Third Class Promenade and played ‘A Nation Once Again’ and ‘Erin’s
Lament’ on his uilleann pipes. He had mixed emotions about leaving his
homeland. Bertha Mulvihill also felt melancholy as the ship got underway.
She was excited to be reunited with her fiancé, but was sad to leave her
family behind, particularly her baby brother Brian, since she had just met him.
There was no telling when she would see him again.
176
As the tender moves away from the Titanic, a bumboat is visible in the foreground.
The Titanic steams off toward open water.
Second Class passenger Lawrence Beesley recalled of that moment that
…
… the tenders cast off, and at 1.30 P.M., with the screws churning up
the sea bottom again, the Titanic turned slowly through a quartercircle until her nose pointed down along the Irish coast …177
The Titanic slowly, majestically moved back out to the open sea, and paused
one more time to allow the Queenstown Pilot to disembark. Once he was
clear, it was time for the Titanic to make her way to the Atlantic Ocean for the
first time. New York Harbor lay over two thousand miles to the southwest.
The giant reciprocating engines were engaged at ‘Full Ahead’, and soon the
central turbine-driven propeller was also spinning away.
Once the Titanic passed the Daunt’s Rock Light Vessel at 2:20 p.m.
Greenwich Mean Time, or 1:55 p.m. ship’s time, she had reached the official
starting point of the trans-Atlantic crossing. The Titanic then steamed parallel
to the southern coast of Ireland for the next 55 nautical miles of her track.
Soon, she was making 70 rpm on the reciprocating engines, indicating a speed
of about 20.7 knots.
178 Fireman John Thompson recalled: ‘From Queenstown
out, all the firemen had been talking of the orders we had to fire her up as hard
as we possibly could. We were to make as quick a passage as possible.’179
While the firemen toiled in hellishly hot conditions below in the boiler
rooms, Second Class passengers Lutie Parrish and Imanita Shelley were still
trying to extract an improvement of their cabin from the ship’s personnel. The
previous day, Purser McElroy had told them that they had received the cabin
their ticket called for; however, he had also said that if there had been a
mistake, then after leaving Queenstown, it was possible that they might be
able to do something further for them.
The two ladies were unhappy with the room’s size, and also with its
fittings. The ‘lower of the two berths was so high from the floor that my
mother had to stand on two suitcases in order to climb in’, Mrs Shelley
recalled, and there was another problem as well. ‘Oh, how cold it was in that
cell’, Mrs Shelley complained. Having ‘just come from under the doctor’s
care in England, I came down with an awful chill and had to crawl in between
the blankets. When not waiting on me my mother had to go to bed in selfdefense.’
Thus, hardly had the ship cleared Queenstown when Lutie Parrish set off
to find McElroy to discuss their keen dissatisfaction in person, and to see if
they could be transferred to the cabin they felt their ticket called for.
180
Apparently not content with McElroy’s response, she returned to the Purser’s
Office eleven more times as the day progressed. By the time of the twelfth
visit, if not long before, these two ladies must have seemed a matching set of
proverbial pebbles in the Chief Purser’s shoes. How would he handle this
sticky situation?
Tw
o
w
o
m
e
n
c
o
nfe
r
w
i
th
a
n
o
b
l
ig
i
n
g
s
te
w
a
rd
i
n
th
is
p
u
b
l
i
c
i
ty
p
h
o
to
fro
m
th
e
O
lymp
ic
d
u
r
i
n
g
th
e
1
9
2
0
’s.
Stokers hard at work in a coal-fired boiler room of the period.
First Class passenger Alfred Nourney.
Unfortunately, this wasn’t the only pair of dissatisfied passengers that
McElroy had already needed to deal with on this voyage. The previous
evening, one ‘Baron Alfred von Drachstedt’ had boarded at Cherbourg, as a
Second Class passenger. The 20-year-old young man, traveling alone, was
actually named Alfred Nourney, and he was traveling under a pseudonym.
Nourney had acquired an extensive wardrobe befitting a Baron before
departing on the trip; between his cash, jewelry and wardrobe, the value of
his effects was some $2,320.50. One is forced to wonder, with such lavish
tastes, why Nourney had decided to book passage in Second Class to begin
with.
Whatever his reason, once he had boarded the liner, he had shown intense
dissatisfaction with his Second Class cabin, and complained to the pursers
about it. For a £38 surcharge, the staff allowed him to upgrade to First Class,
and he was assigned cabin D-38. Located nearly all the way forward in First
Class spaces of D Deck, this was an inside cabin. Even so, the upgrade
seemed to pacify the ‘Baron’, and he socialized amongst First Class travelers
with wardrobes of comparable tastes.
While McElroy struggled to keep passengers content, the Titanic
continued to steam along the picturesque coast of Ireland. At about 2:30 p.m.
ship’s time,
181 or some thirty-five minutes after passing Daunt’s Rock
Lightship, she passed the Old Head of Kinsale at a distance of about three
miles. Then she proceeded another 41 nautical miles to Fastnet Light, which
marked the southwestern-most point of the Emerald Isle. Once she had passed
this famous landmark, at about 4:30 p.m., the Irish coastline began to fade into
the distance astern. Titanic had reached the open Atlantic Ocean.
182
Second Class passenger Sidney Collett was watching the Irish coast grow
fainter in the distance astern. As part of a family moving from the Old World
to the New, he knew that it might be some time before he returned to his
homeland in England; this could be his last sighting of the Old World for some
time to come. That Thursday afternoon ‘I took my last look and bade farewell
to the old country. Everything was going finely.’183
Lawrence Beesley recalled:
All afternoon we steamed along the coast of Ireland, with grey cliffs
guarding the shores, and hills rising behind gaunt and barren; as dusk
fell, the coast rounded away from us to the northwest, and the last we
saw of Europe was the Irish mountains dim and faint in the dropping
darkness.
184
As the sun began to set ahead of the liner’s bow, the ship was aglow with light
from stem to stern. The haunting strains of the ship’s orchestra, playing
cheerful music in a pre-dinner concert, drifted across the sea.
185 The
reciprocating engines throbbed steadily away, driving the ship forward in the
smooth seas. The sound of convivial social intercourse filled the ship, and the
smell of fine cuisine wafted from the galleys.
Thirty-six-year-old Second Class passenger Kate Buss was traveling
alone. She was on her way to San Diego, California, to marry her fiancé, and
was fighting feelings of loneliness. Fortunately, she had become acquainted
with another young lady, Marion Wright, at her table in the Dining Saloon. On
Wednesday, the pair had even shared a steamer rug on deck and discussed
where they were headed. Miss Buss learned that Miss Wright was traveling to
Oregon, and was to meet her fiancé in New York for the wedding. On
Wednesday night, Kate had not slept very well, ‘owing to the vibration. There
is a good deal of it,’ she recalled, ‘and I fancy they travelled at a pretty good
speed last night to make up for lost time.’ Happily she was able to report not a
hint of seasickness, and that she had ‘eaten anything and everything’.
One of the events that Miss Buss soon came to love were the daily
concerts given by the ship’s orchestra. In Second Class, they performed in the
aft Second Class Entrance Foyer on C Deck between 5:00 and 6:00 p.m., and
then again from 9:15 to 10:15 p.m. Kate recalled:
The ‘cello man [32-year-old John Woodward] is a favorite of mine,
every time he finishes a piece he looks at me and we smile. It’s a real
Liberty Hall. Everyone seems to be as happy as sandboys for the time
being.
She also recalled, perhaps with a little less enthusiasm, that fellow passenger
Stuart Collett ‘tries to teach us all religion’.
186
Now that ports of call were falling ever farther behind the ship’s wake,
and there were no cross-Channel passengers to disembark, or fresh
passengers to embark, the normal shipboard routine began to set in. Every
morning, Captain Smith and his officers made a thorough inspection of the
ship, according to White Star Line’s policy. The senior officers also began to
settle in to their daily ‘at sea’ watches. Chief Officer Wilde had the 2:00–6:00
watch every morning and afternoon; Second Officer Lightoller followed him
with the 6:00–10:00 watch every morning and night; finally, First Officer
Murdoch took the 10:00–2:00 watches every mid-day and night. Meanwhile,
the ship’s six lookout men were divided into three two-man teams, and each
team served four two-hour watches in the Crow’s Nest. Throughout all of the
other areas of the ship, the various crewmen formed up their watches and
began to get into their routine.
187
Passengers also began to fall into a routine. Although the three main meals
were served to passengers every day – breakfast between 8:00 and 10:00
a.m., lunch at 1:00 p.m., and dinner at 7:00 p.m. – it was really dinner that
stood out as the centerpiece of daily activity. Before dinner, First Class
passengers would gather in the Reception Room on D Deck, at the foot of the
Grand Staircase. Dressing for dinner was not required on the first night after
the voyage began. However, on Thursday night and all subsequent nights,
formal attire was always – as Colonel Archibald Gracie later recalled – ‘en
regle’. After socializing with friends or new shipboard acquaintances in the
Reception Room, this throng of hungry individuals would next proceed
through one of the two sets of double-doors and enter the Saloon itself.
Once in the Saloon, the passengers would make their way to their
individual tables. As on all ocean liners, passengers were given table
assignments in the Saloon that they would maintain throughout the crossing;
when the table companions consisted of old friends, mealtimes were sure to
be convivial. Occasionally, passengers were dismayed to find themselves
seated with fellow passengers whom they considered dull, irksome, or
outright dimwitted. Under such circumstances, many simply labored through
each meal while praying for a quick, merciful end to the crossing. Another
alternative, at least aboard Titanic, was to take as many meals as possible in
the First Class à la carte Restaurant on B Deck.
The Olympic’s band plays in the Second Class Entrance during the 1920s.
A Third Class menu from the Olympic, dating to some six weeks after Titanic’s maiden voyage,
shows a broad variety of selections for her passengers.
More often than not, however, passengers found their company pleasant
and the dinner conversations at the very least cordial. If they did not know
each other directly, table companions would frequently find that their social
circles intertwined and they had mutual acquaintances. Indeed, it was not
unusual for good shipboard friendships to be formed over mid-Atlantic meals.
Elmer Taylor recalled:
We were mildly interested in the passenger list; many of the names
were internationally known – Colonel John Jacob Astor, Isidor Straus,
C. M. Hays, W. T. Stead, and men equally or better known in
commercial and literary life. There were many lovely women to blend
with the rich furnishings; the prevailing style of apparel and “hair-do”
were studies for artists. Day dresses were not too short to be
attractive, extra long evening gowns, fur coats, jewelry and all that
goes to make glamour was the spirit of the time.
188
Purser Hugh McElroy had kindly given Mrs Eleanor Cassebeer a seat at his
own large table in the Dining Saloon, which was for either ten or twelve
people. She found herself dining not only with McElroy, but also with Ship’s
Surgeon Dr William O’Loughlin, Assistant Surgeon John Simpson, 47-yearold New York stockbroker Harry Anderson, Harland & Wolff’s Thomas
Andrews, Frederick and Jane Hoyt, and Albert and Vera Dick.
189 She sat on
Dr O’Loughlin’s left side, and directly across from Thomas Andrews.
During the course of their mealtime conversations, Andrews mentioned
that in certain ways, Titanic really wasn’t ready to sail on this trip; yet, they
had to proceed because the prescheduled sailing date of April 10 arrived, and
the ship simply had to sail on time. This made sense to Mrs Cassebeer, as she
had noticed that none of the standard printed notices were in her cabin,
although the frames were in place.
190
By this point, Isaac Frauenthal was beginning to feel better over his
misgivings about the voyage aboard Titanic. Once he had boarded, he told his
brother and sister-in-law about the dream, and ‘they laughed’ at his fears. As
Frauenthal became acquainted with the others aboard, he said:
I don’t suppose any ship that ever took an Atlantic track had a happier,
more confident crowd of passengers than the Titanic. The novelty of
having a part in the maiden trip of the world’s greatest ship appealed
to everybody. Then, too, nearly all of us felt that there was no reason
to be alarmed or apprehensive about anything.
191
The previous evening, a trio of First Class passengers from Zurich,
Switzerland had boarded at Cherbourg. There was 60-year-old Maximilian
Frölicher-Stehli and his wife, 48-year-old Margaretha Frölicher-Stehli, and
their daughter, 22-year-old Miss Hedwig Margaritha Frölicher, who was
frequently referred to as Marguerite.
192 Mr Frölicher-Stehli was involved in
silk manufacturing and importing, and as such he was a frequent trans-Atlantic
traveler. As Miss Marguerite had done quite well in her school examinations,
this trip was something of a reward for her. On the first night aboard, the
family had been settled in nicely and, fortunately, there was no trace of the
dreaded mal-de-mer.
On Thursday evening, Marguerite recalled that ‘everyone was gay and
happy. But that night I became seasick. So did my mother. We were in
adjoining cabins and … we just lay in our bunks, knocking occasionally to
each other through the wall.’ Marguerite suspected that she was ‘the most
seasick girl on the Titanic’.
193
In Second Class, Lutie Parrish and Imanita Shelley were still discontent
with their accommodations. Their cabin was slightly more expensive than the
Second Class cabin that they had enjoyed onboard the Mauretania when
traveling from New York to England, and in their opinion it was not furnished
nearly as nicely. A dozen trips to see Chief Purser McElroy had netted no
response favorable enough for their finicky tastes.
When 9:00 p.m. came and went without anyone addressing their situation,
Imanita was incensed. Still feeling quite ill and thoroughly chilled, she
undertook to write a personal, and pointed, note to Purser McElroy. She stated
therein that McElroy was ‘obtaining money under false pretenses’, as she ‘had
paid for the best second cabin on the ship’. She even sent him the receipt for
her ticket indicating how much she had paid for the cabin.
Then she played her final card, telling the purser that she ‘had just left the
hospital in London and on account of the intense cold and lack of any facilities
for heat in this cell’ that she was in mortal danger. Furthermore, she
threatened, if he did not do something to redress their intolerable conditions,
she ‘would appeal to the captain direct’. If the Captain did nothing, then she
would handle things when she reached shore – if, she pointed out, she ‘lived
to reach America’. She sent the note on via her Cabin Stewardess.
McElroy received the note from the stewardess and read it. He then asked
the stewardess, perhaps with exasperation, if Mrs Shelley was ‘really so very
ill’. Perhaps to his surprise, the stewardess replied that there was ‘no doubt
about that part of it’. McElroy then asked, perhaps rhetorically, ‘if it was true
that there was such a cell on board the Titanic, where a steamer trunk could
not be opened at all, and where only two women could stand up at one time.’
Apparently, the stewardess confirmed to him that the room was rather small.
McElroy was finally sure that this particular problem was not going away
unless drastic action was taken. ‘Well, we must act at once or we will get the
company into trouble’, he said to the stewardess. It seems clear that although
he still was not convinced that the ladies were due for some sort of upgrade,
there were other Second Class cabins available and unoccupied at the time.
So, the ever-tactful Purser that he was, he sent four stewards down to the
offending ‘cell’ in question.
The stewards carried Mrs Shelley, as well as all of the two ladies’
belongings, up to the room that Mrs Shelley believed she had paid for. Before
they left, Mrs Shelley recalled that the stewards offered ‘10,000 apologies’.
The new cabin was ‘spacious, with a high ceiling’, but Imanita and her mother
still believed that their quarters on the Mauretania had been better furnished.
Mrs. Shelley was also told that she could ‘choose any stewardess I desired,
so I had the little woman who had waited on me so faithfully in the cell
promoted.’
Besides being moved to a larger cabin, Assistant Surgeon John Simpson
began checking in on Mrs. Shelley three to four times a day for the remainder
of the voyage; he ordered her to stay in the room on bed rest. He was
concerned that she might have diphtheria, and had meals served to her in her
room. Unfortunately, despite the cabin upgrade, Mrs Parrish and Mrs Shelley
found that the new room was no warmer than the previous one. In fact, Mrs
Shelley recalled that when Dr Simpson called upon her, ‘his teeth could
chatter and rattle although he always denied he was cold.’
Imanita continued to complain to her Cabin Steward about the rooms
being so cold. The steward responded: ‘Young lady, I don’t think they ever
will be on this ship until they change the heating system. There is a system of
hot air flues through which the warmth is supposed to pass, and it does not get
around. Three passengers who have second cabins, where the hot air enters
the system, are complaining that they are smothered and cannot stand the heat.
All the rest are freezing, so there is something radically wrong.’194
Apparently, this was a bug that would need to be worked out following the
maiden voyage, and it was no doubt proving something of a stress for Mr
Andrews and the other members of the Guarantee Group from Harland &
Wolff.
That same Thursday, Third Class Steward John E. Hart recalled that at
some point during the day, there was a general bulkhead inspection. He saw
Chief Officer Wilde and Thomas Andrews together, and they were checking to
make sure that the crew could close the watertight doors manually. Hart was
ordered to attempt to do so, and he ‘closed them with a big spanner’.
195 The
test went well, and at least Andrews didn’t have to worry about any serious
issues in that regard.
Thomas Andrews’ Bedroom Steward, Henry Etches, had known the
Titanic’s designer for some time, having met him several times in Belfast
while serving on the Olympic. He noticed that Andrews ‘was working all the
time’. In his cabin he ‘had charts rolled up by the side of the bed, and he had
papers of all descriptions on his table during the day … He was making notes
of improvements; any improvements that could be made … Anything that was
pointed out to him, he was making notes of it.’ Etches pointed out to Andrews
a few details that might be improved, and Andrews kept careful record of the
suggestions.
During the days of the trip, Etches recalled seeing Andrews ‘in all parts,
with workmen, going about … The whole of the day he was working from one
part of the ship to the other.’ Etches also noticed that he ‘was very late in
going to bed’, but not because he was socializing in the Smoking Room or the
Lounge. Rather, it was because he was hard at work. Etches saw Andrews ‘at
different parts of deck E more often than anywhere else.’ For times that
Andrews was going down into the grimy engineering spaces, he would put on
a blue surveyor’s suit; when he came back up, Etches noticed that the ship’s
designer would cast the suit onto the bed in his room.
196
First Class Stewardess Violet Jessop remembered that every now and then
through the voyage, she came across the ‘beloved’ Thomas Andrews. No
matter how busy he was, she recalled that Andrews ‘never failed to stop for a
cheerful word, his only regret that we were “getting further from home”.’197
Doubtless, Andrews’ business helped keep his mind off thoughts of home and
how far he was from it.
As was the usual custom aboard ship, every night after dinner there was a
pool to bet on the ship’s run for the next day. Male passengers would
congregate in the Smoking Rooms and purchase one number from a range of
mileage estimates for the next day’s run, which was calculated every day at
noon. This pastime was a highly popular one aboard ocean liners of the
period; the betting was particularly keen on high-speed vessels which were
out to take the Blue Riband. Before placing their wager, passengers were
eager to obtain ‘inside information’ on the subject from stewards, engineers
and officers that they came into contact with, all in the hopes of purchasing the
most accurate figure. Although the Titanic was not capable of making a Blue
Riband-winning crossing, it was expected that she would make a swift
passage, and interest in the daily mileage runs was thus quite high.
Eventually, passengers began to drift off to their cabins; Saloon Stewards
set about the nightly task of cleaning up the Dining Saloons and setting the
tables for breakfast. Bakers worked through the night to prepare fresh bread
and other goods for consumption the next day. Cabin Stewards on night duty
monitored their charges, waiting for the least sign that their assistance was
required. Up on the Bridge, the ship’s officers and lookouts strained their eyes
into the clear night ahead, ever vigilant despite the routine nature of their
watches. Titanic steamed west through the night, her engines throbbing away
with a reassuring constancy … the wind whistled through the rigging …
everything was quiet on the ship’s first night on the Atlantic Ocean.
At midnight that night, the ship’s public area clocks on the Magneta circuit
were set back to 11:01 p.m.
198 This 59-minute adjustment was made in order
to agree with local time at the ship’s anticipated position at noon the
following day. In order to share the time change between the various
crewmen, the setback was further divided between two watches – 29 minutes
in the first watch, and 30 minutes in the second watch.
199
Day Three – Friday, April 12, 1912.
Activity around the ship started early Friday morning, as it usually did on
liners at sea. Breakfast was served beginning at 8:00 a.m. Lady Duff Gordon
recalled:
Like everyone else I was entranced with the beauty of the liner. I had
never dreamt of traveling in such luxury. I remember being childishly
pleased on finding strawberries on my breakfast-table.
‘Fancy strawberries in April, and in mid-ocean. The whole thing is
positively uncanny,’ I kept saying to my husband. ‘Why you would
think you were at the Ritz.’200
Throughout the day, the problems with the ship’s internal heating system
continued. First Class passengers were less susceptible to this issue, as the
cabins had individual electric heaters and there were many similar electrical
heaters throughout the public rooms – not to mention the heat generated from
thousands of incandescent electric lights.
However, things were still quite cold in Mrs Shelley’s replacement
Second Class cabin. Her steward told her on Friday that the three overheated
passengers that he had mentioned the day before ‘had kicked so that the heat
had all been turned off’, and so the issue continued to persist. Down in Third
Class areas of the ship, a number of Steerage passengers also said that their
heating apparatus, while present, ‘did not work’.
Mrs Shelley was also experiencing a new problem. Dr Simpson, truly
concerned about her health, would not allow her to get out of bed, so he
arranged for her meals to be brought in. ‘The food was excellent’, Mrs
Shelley allowed, ‘but it seemed impossible to get it to me. My stewardess
could not even get a tray to serve on and had to bring the different articles one
at a time in her hand. There seemed to be no one in charge and no one to
whom to turn for orders. The stewards and stewardesses were so willing, but
could not get any action from their superiors.’201
The Olympic’s Second Class elevator on C Deck.
First Class passengers Doctor and Mrs Washington Dodge.
There just seemed to be no pleasing Mrs Parrish and Mrs Shelley. By that
point, perhaps Purser McElroy and other members of the Titanic’s staff
secretly wished that the two ladies had instead booked passage on the
Mauretania, in the cabin that they had loved so much … or, indeed, that they
had booked passage on any liner other than the Titanic. If they did nurse such
feelings, however, they were far too professional to reveal their irritation.
Passengers were still growing accustomed to their surroundings all over
the liner. With growing confidence, they were able to find their way around
the Titanic’s cavernous interior spaces. However, there were still some things
that no one seemed to be familiar with: the special lavatory faucets in Second
Class, for example. While some of the fixtures were still in their crates,
uninstalled, at least some of these special patent lavatory faucets were in
operating order. However, their operation was not exactly intuitive.
Passenger interaction with these baffling faucets resulted in at least one
rather comedic situation. One day during the voyage, a ‘passenger went to
wash and started to fill the basin, but was unable to stop the flow of water.
She called the stewardess and she did not know the combination; in turn a
steward was called and then another and another, and no one could make the
thing stop running. Finally, after much confusion and red tape, a ship’s
plumber was sent for.’ When the man arrived, he ‘instructed’ the confused
passengers and ship’s personnel ‘in the mysteries of that patent faucet’.
202
Lawrence Beesley was impressed with the ship’s size, and the fact that
Second Class spaces were so large that they needed an elevator to help
passengers get around:
Whatever else may have been superfluous, lifts certainly were not: old
ladies, for example, in cabins on F deck, would hardly have got to the
top deck during the whole voyage had they not been able to ring for the
lift-boy. Perhaps nothing gave one a greater impression of the size of
the ship than to take the lift from the top and drop slowly down past
the different floors, discharging and taking in passengers just as in a
large hotel … [The liftboy] was quite young, – not more than sixteen, I
think, – a bright-eyed, handsome boy, with a love for the sea and the
games on deck and the view over the ocean – and he did not get any of
them. One day, as he put me out of his lift and saw through the
vestibule windows a game of deck quoits in progress, he said, in a
wistful tone, “My! I wish I could go out there sometimes!” I wished he
could, too, and made a jesting offer to take charge of his lift for an
hour while he went to watch the game; but he smilingly shook his head
and dropped down in answer to an imperative ring from below.
203
Far below Beesley and the Second Class lift, the stokers fired up another one
of the double-ended primary boilers; Titanic was then steaming on twenty of
her twenty-nine boilers, and would continue to do so until the new boiler was
brought up to pressure some hours later. In the meanwhile, the ship’s speed
was increased to 72 rpm on the reciprocating engines, indicating 21.2 knots
through the water.
204 By noon, the ship had reached a position of about 50°
06’ north latitude, 20° 43’ west longitude. She had steamed 484 miles since
leaving Daunt’s Rock, at an average speed of 20.98 knots … Not bad for a
ship designed for only 21 knots, and only operating on twenty of her 29
boilers.
205 Once calculated, the ship’s run was posted for the passengers to
view, enjoy and discuss.
Fifty-two-year-old Doctor Washington Dodge was traveling in First Class
with his 34-year-old wife Ruth, and their 4-year-old son Washington, Jr. The
Dodge family was from San Francisco, California. Although a medical doctor,
Dr Dodge was the Property Tax Assessor for the City of San Francisco. He
worked hard at his job, and the family was returning home after an extended
vacation in Switzerland. Master Dodge recalled:
I remember walking the decks of the Titanic during the early part of
the voyage … I had a toy animal ox that ran a bell as I pulled it. My
father scolded me. Said I was waking up people trying to take naps.
206
Miss Helen Ostby and her father …
… spent the first few days exploring the ship, or should I say, the
areas reserved for passengers in the first class. There were great
distinctions and the different classes were kept apart.
Mostly we just wandered around between meals, enjoying the
luxury and newness of it all. We always traveled on the White Star
Line, so we could compare the Titanic with other ships of the
company.
207
Eleanor Cassebeer was walking on the Promenade Deck that day when she
met Benjamin Foreman again. On Wednesday evening, she had nearly collided
with him as they went to get in line at the Purser’s Enquiry Office on C Deck.
On that evening, she had whispered to Foreman that she had not wished to get
a seat in the Saloon beside a Jewish man who, she believed, was being a little
too fussy about his seat assignment. On Friday, when she bumped into
Foreman, she asked if he would like to take a walk with her. Foreman laughed
and, perhaps teasingly, told her: ‘You don’t want to walk with me. You said
you didn’t like Jews and I’m one too.’
This caught Mrs Cassebeer off guard, since she believed that her
prejudice against Jewish people was very typical of the period. She and
Foreman went into one of the alcoves in the Lounge, where they sat and talked
for a little while. They talked a bit about his background, and how he had
been abroad for two years working in his father’s textile company in
Switzerland. They discussed the subject of Jews in general, and Foreman told
her that his feeling on the subject was that, just like every other national
group, there were good Jews and bad Jews, and that it all depended on the
individual. The two became fast ‘shipboard friends’.
208
In Second Class, Kate Buss was enjoying the fine day, although she
recalled that it was ‘much more choppy’ than the previous day and several
people were seasick. She had slept well the night before, and was enjoying
watching a pair of three- or four-year-old ‘Japanese’ girls walking around the
decks and looking ‘like dolls’.
209 Much of her time that afternoon was taken
up with reading. At the concert that afternoon, she sat on the stairs and was
again charmed by cello player John Woodward, saying he was a very
‘superior bandsman, and he always smiles his parting to us’. And while some
of the passengers had been having trouble figuring out how to operate the
ship’s amenities, Kate was fascinated by one convenience in particular. She
said that when …
… you go into the lavatories and bedrooms they are in darkness until
you close the door, which is connected with a clip to the electric light,
you open the door and the light goes off.
I have two clips to the one light in my cabin, one at the head of my
bed and the other at the door.
210
In the wireless office, just behind the Bridge, things were busy. Wireless
Operators Jack Phillips and Harold Bride were kept very occupied with the
general messages passing between ship and shore. Among these ordinary
messages, a few other communications began to come in that hinted there
might be something unusual ahead. It all began rather auspiciously on Friday
afternoon.
At 5:46 p.m.,
211
the La Touraine sent a wireless message to the Titanic. It
started with the prefix M.S.G., which meant: ‘Master Service Message.’ This
was the title given to official messages between one Master and another
regarding important navigational matters.
212
 The message read:
To Capt. ‘Titanic.’ My position 7 p.m. GMT [Greenwich Mean Time]
lat. 49.28 long. 26.28 W. dense fog since this night crossed thick ice
field lat. 44.58 long. 50.40 ‘Paris’ saw another ice field and two
icebergs lat. 45.20 long. 45.09 ‘Paris’ saw a derelict lat. 40.56 long.
68.38 ‘Paris’ please give me your position best regards and bon
voyage. Caussin.
213
The message was brought to Captain Smith, and he formulated a response,
which was sent at 6:21 p.m.:214
M.S.G. To Capt. ‘La Touraine,’ Thanks for your message and
information. My position 7 p.m. G.M.T. Lat. 49, 45; long. 23, 38 W.
Greenwich; had fine weather; compliments. – Smith.
215
The message from the La Touraine was overall congratulatory in its tone. The
offhand mention of ice – which lay ahead of the Titanic’s general track – was
not unusual for an April crossing, either.
Just before this message came in, there was a muster held on the Bridge.
The two Emergency Cutters, Boats Nos 1 and 2, were kept swung out so that
if anyone fell overboard, they could be lowered away quickly to help carry
out search and rescue operations. The boats could not be sent away quickly,
however, without crews. Thus, at 6:00 p.m. every evening, an officer, a
Quartermaster, and six seamen gathered for a muster, to make sure that the men
would be ready in the event of an emergency.
216
Another routine occurrence aboard the ship was the posting of the boat list
for the crew members. It was First Officer Murdoch’s responsibility to draw
up the list of boat assignments, and he followed through on this promptly after
departing Southampton.
217 Seaman Archie Jewell saw a boat list posted ‘right
in front of our forecastle’.
218 Seaman George Symons saw the same list on
‘Thursday night or Friday morning early’, and was even more specific in
saying that there was ‘one [list] in the forecastle, what they call the emergency
boat list, and also on the forecastle door [at the top of the companionway]
was a general boat list.’219
An Account of Wages for the Olympic in 1914 shows how carefully crew wages were recorded.
Leading Fireman Charles Hendrickson remembered that rather than a
single list of the entire crew, there were several lists broken down by various
departments, and that the pertinent list was posted in a place where crewmen
of that department were likely to see it. Hendrickson saw the list for the
firemen, trimmers and greasers.
220 Bathroom Steward Frank Morris saw a
boat list posted in the First Class Pantry on Thursday, April 11;221 Bathroom
Steward Samuel Rule saw this same list.
222 On the same day, Chief Baker
Charles Joughin saw the boat list for the kitchen staff posted on the wall of the
Galley.
223 Posting the boat lists that early on in the voyage would make for a
smoother time of things on Sunday, during the typical at-sea lifeboat muster
for the crew. It was all a matter of routine – so routine, in fact, that many of
the crewmen did not bother to read the list to see what boat they were
assigned to.
That same evening, First Class passenger Philipp Mock noticed that there
was another routine beginning to develop. He recalled that dinner ‘was
served at 7 o’clock and by 8:30 the people were gathered in the big saloon,
sitting around the tables or on the lounges, talking, the men smoking, and
everyone happy and interested.’224
As Thomas Andrews was headed down the Grand Staircase to dinner in
the Dining Saloon that night, 28-year-old First Class Stewardess Mary Sloan
saw him and the two paused to converse. Miss Sloan hailed from Belfast, and
she was ‘proud’ of Andrews. She said:
He came from home and he made you feel on the ship that all was
right. It was good to hear his laugh and have him near you. If anything
went wrong it was always to Mr Andrews one went. Even if a fan
stuck in a stateroom, one would say, “Wait for Mr Andrews, he’ll soon
see to it,” and you would find him settling even the little quarrels that
arose between ourselves. Nothing came amiss to him, nothing at all.
And he was always the same, a nod and a smile or a hearty word
whenever he saw you and no matter what he was at.
However, on this night, Miss Sloan thought that he was not quite himself. Dr
O’Loughlin was waiting for him on the stair landing, ‘calling him by his
Christian name, Tommy’. Even then, the young stewardess thought that
Andrews …
… seemed loth to go, he wanted to talk about home; he was telling me
his father was ill and Mrs Andrews was not so well. I was
congratulating him on the beauty and perfection of the ship; he said the
part he did not like was that the Titanic was taking us further away
from home every hour. I looked at him and his face struck me as
having a very sad expression.
225
For a man like Thomas Andrews, juggling the responsibilities of a work that
he adored and a family that he loved and who needed him was not an easy
thing. As good-natured and happy as he was, the strain apparently still wore at
him from time to time.
Elmer Taylor recalled that at their dinner table, conversations among his
party …
… were usually in a serious mood. Williams, like myself and my wife,
had been regularly attending Christian Science services … and the
Crosbys had attended C. S. lectures and meetings in their home town.
At times, we were almost the last people to leave the dining room,
discussing perhaps man’s greatest engineering skill and contemplating
future developments. …
… Our discussions and conversations sometimes continued as we
took coffee in the Reception Room adjoining the dining room.
226
Lady Duff Gordon said that everything …
… aboard this lovely ship reassured me from the captain, with his
kindly, bearded face and genial manner, and his twenty-five years of
experience as a White Star commander, to my merry, Irish stewardess,
with her soft brogue and tales of the timid ladies she attended during
hundreds of Atlantic crossings. …
The time passed happily enough. I had my secretary, Miss
Francatelli, with me, as well as my husband, and we both found
several friends on board. Mr and Mrs Thayer, the former was
President of the Pennsylvania Railway, were among them.
227
Despite the pleasant atmosphere, the kindly Captain, the merry Irish
stewardess, and the presence of friends, Lady Duff Gordon simply couldn’t
shake the uneasiness that she had felt before boarding the ship. As a result,
every night when she went to bed, she did not completely undress. She also
kept a warm coat and wrap, as well as a little jewel case with a few of her
most treasured possessions in it, handy by her bedside through the night.
On that evening, Captain Smith dined with Bruce Ismay in the First Class
à la carte Restaurant on B Deck. After dinner, the Captain left Ismay and their
dining companions in the First Class Restaurant. Ismay, however, stayed on
with the others. Eventually, Ismay invited everyone back his spacious suite,
B-52, B-54 and B-56, and the group played bridge.
228
As Friday came to a conclusion, the twenty-first boiler, fired earlier that
day, was brought online and added its steam pressure to the engines. At
midnight, the ship’s public clocks were set back by a total of 49 minutes.
Throughout the day on Saturday, Titanic’s clocks would be running 2 hours
and 47 minutes ahead of New York Time, and 2 hours and 13 minutes behind
Greenwich Mean Time.
229
Day Four – Saturday, April 13, 1912.
During Saturday morning, Kate Buss finally had an opportunity to chat with
her favorite cellist, John Woodward. She had wanted to ask him to play a
solo, but up to this point had not had the chance. She took the opportunity on
this morning, he agreed, and they began chatting. It turned out that he had been
on the Olympic the previous September when she had been involved in the
collision with the cruiser Hawke. He told her that the Olympic had been
struck ‘just where their berths were, and he said that had they been in there,
they must have been killed.’230
At noon, the ship was located at about 47° 22’ North, 33° 10’ West; since
noon the previous day, she had covered some 519 miles at an average speed
of 20.91 knots in terms of ‘speed made good’. Once the run had been
calculated, it was again posted for passengers to see, and quickly became a
hot topic of conversation. Lawrence Beesley recalled that over lunch that day,
the subject came up. He was dining with Assistant Purser Reginald Barker in
the Second Class Dining Saloon, and Barker told the table’s occupants that
this latest run was ‘a disappointment, and we should not dock until
Wednesday morning instead of Tuesday night, as we had expected.’231
Olympic’s First Class Reception Room.
First Class passenger Elizabeth Lines.
First Class passenger Mary Lines.
All hope of docking early was not lost to those really in the know,
however. Word was soon passed to increase the revolutions from 72 to 75
rpm on the reciprocating engines. Leading Fireman Fred Barrett recalled
receiving the order directly from the Second Engineer, and he passed word
along to all of his own men. The stokers put their backs into it, and the
revolutions increased. Barrett knew this because, although he never checked
to see what revolutions they were making – something that would necessitate
traveling from Boiler Room No. 6 all the way aft to the Engine Room – the
phone never rang with a complaint, either. The next day’s run was sure to
show an improvement.
232 Bruce Ismay was also informed of the improved
speed on the engines.
233
At about 1:30 that same afternoon, 50-year-old passenger Mrs Elizabeth
Lines strolled into the First Class Reception Room on D Deck, where she
ordered some after-lunch coffee. She had chosen one of the small tables on the
port side of the room, near the bow; the atmosphere was very quiet, and she
lingered over her coffee for quite some time. Mrs Lines had boarded Titanic
at Cherbourg, along with her 16-year-old daughter Mary. Mrs Lines’ husband
Ernest, who was not aboard for the crossing, was the Medical Director of the
New York Life Insurance Company. Although the family members were
American citizens, when Mr Lines had been placed in oversight of the
company’s interests in Europe, Asia and Africa, they had moved to Paris.
Elizabeth and Mary were making the westward trip to visit relatives, and to
attend the graduation of Mrs Lines’ son from Dartmouth College. They were
very excited to have booked passage across the Atlantic on the new Titanic.
While Mrs Lines absorbed the restful atmosphere of the Reception Room,
she noticed Bruce Ismay and Captain Smith come in. She had been able to
identify the two men previously during the course of the voyage, and so she
easily recognized who they were on that afternoon. They chose to sit just two
tables away from her; apparently they were creatures of habit, since Mrs
Lines had also noticed them sitting and talking at the same table the previous
day. On Friday, she had paid no attention to their conversation, since she had
only been passing by them. To begin with, she was not inclined to pay
attention on this afternoon either, since she was occupied with something else.
Eventually, however, she noticed that they were discussing the ship’s daily
runs – a popular topic amongst passengers. Now her attention was fully
arrested; she had plenty of time on her hands, and found the room was quiet
enough to overhear their discussion quite clearly without obviously
eavesdropping.
This stokehold scene comes from the USS Massachusetts just a few years before the Titanic’s
maiden voyage.
Ismay was visibly excited over the success of his new ship. Titanic was
clearly making better time than her sister, Olympic, had made on her maiden
voyage. The boilers were standing the pressure of full-steam quite nicely, he
noted; the ship would certainly make a better run up to noon on Sunday than
they had made this day. Mrs Lines noticed Captain Smith nodding in the
affirmative to Ismay’s enthusiastic comments, but observed that the
conversation was not much of a conversation at all, since Smith was saying
nothing. Ismay wasn’t coming up for air, and neither was he asking any
questions … Smith merely continued to nod in agreement with his statements.
Later, she couldn’t recall hearing the Captain speaking at all during the tête-àtête.
The White Star Chairman, she thought, ‘was very positive, one might
almost say dictatorial’. He was so excited that he was repeating himself a
great deal. ‘You see they are standing the pressure, everything is going well,
the boilers are working well’, Ismay said. ‘We can do better tomorrow, we
will make a better run to-morrow.’ Ismay thought that they could put a little
more steam on, and increase the ship’s speed still further. Then she heard
Ismay say: ‘We will beat the Olympic and get in to New York on Tuesday.’
Eventually, Ismay was satisfied. The two men rose and went to depart the
Reception Room. Mrs Lines recalled hearing Ismay say to Smith: ‘Come on,
Captain, we will get somebody and go down to the Squash Courts.’234
This conversation shows that Ismay was apparently fully informed on the
ship’s navigation up to that point. Unquestionably, he expected the Titanic to
perform better than her older sister on her first voyage the previous
summer.
235
It is also very clear that Ismay – like many others aboard the ship
throughout the crossing – hoped that Titanic would arrive in New York on
Tuesday evening rather than Wednesday. Captain Smith, for his part, seemed
to show no reservation on the point.
236
In the meantime, another troublesome situation which had plagued the ship
right from Belfast was finally being put to bed. During Saturday, the fire
which had been burning in the forward coal bunker of Boiler Room No. 5 was
finally extinguished. Leading Fireman Charles Hendrickson recalled that the
‘fire was not out much before all the coal was out’.
237
 He and the three or four
men that were working with him ‘finished the bunker out’.
238
Only then, with the fire out and the bunker wholly emptied of coal, could
anyone get a look at the fire’s effects. Hendrickson and Leading Fireman Fred
Barrett had a look for themselves. Barrett recalled that the bulkhead which ran
through the bunker ‘was damaged from the bottom … The bottom of the
watertight compartment was dinged aft and the other part was dinged
forward.’239 Hendrickson said that he ‘could see where [the bulkhead] had
been red hot; all the paint and everything was off. It was dented a bit.’ He
recalled that it was ‘warped’. So he ‘brushed it off and got some black oil and
rubbed over it’.
240
That same day, Walter and Mahala Douglas were strolling along the
Promenade Deck, enjoying the fine weather and the ‘fresh favoring winds’
which had seemed to caress their entire crossing. They noticed a nearby
seaman lowering a weighted pail toward the sea so that he could retrieve a
sample and take the temperature of the water. Curious to view this bit of
shipboard routine, Mrs Douglas watched from one of the open Promenade
Deck windows. She wondered if the pail would manage to reach the water or
if it would simply be buffeted about in the breeze. The bucket, in the end, did
not make it to the water, and the seaman drew it back up, ‘filled it with water
from the stand pipe, placed the thermometer in it, and went with it to the
officer in charge.’241
Colonel Archibald Gracie was a seasoned trans-Atlantic traveler, but on
this particular trip, he found himself straying from his typical shipboard
routine:
In the various trips which I have made across the Atlantic, it has been
my custom aboard ship, whenever the weather permitted, to take as
much exercise every day as might be needful to put myself in prime
physical condition, but on board the Titanic, during the first days of
the voyage, from Wednesday to Saturday, I had departed from this, my
usual self-imposed regimen, for during this interval I had devoted my
time to social enjoyment and to the reading of books taken from the
ship’s well-supplied library. I enjoyed myself as if I were in a summer
palace on the seashore, surrounded with every comfort – there was
nothing to indicate or suggest that we were on the stormy Atlantic
Ocean. The motion of the ship and the noise of its machinery were
scarcely discernible on deck or in the saloons, either day or night.
242
The majority of the passengers aboard the ship were very much enjoying the
crossing. Elmer Taylor recalled:
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday on this voyage passed quickly.
Everyone was speculating on [the] mileage of the maiden voyage, the
behavior of the great ship, indulging in gossip, inside information and
time of arrival.
243
First Class passenger Irene Harris, wife of theatrical producer Henry B.
Harris, recalled that there was a ‘spirit of camaraderie unlike any I had
experienced on previous trips. No one consulted the passenger list, to judge
from the air of good fellowship that prevailed among the cabin passengers.
They met on deck as one big party.’
A crewman takes the water’s temperature on a liner of the period.
An extremely rare Turkish Bath ticket from the Titanic.
May Futrelle, who spent much time with the Harrises during the voyage,
recalled being particularly curious about the Astors during the crossing:
Someone had pointed out the Astors to us. Of course I, with every
other woman on board, was curious about them. His height and her
smart little figure would have made them noticeable in any
circumstances. She was wearing a pretty ermine cap, and we used to
spot it all over the ship, for they moved about among us very freely.
They were all alone most of the time. Perhaps they would have been
rather glad to scrape up a few acquaintances. I used to think so when I
saw her glance up from her reading at every one who passed. But, of
course, the rest of us felt that it would have been rather presumptuous
to make the first move.
Unfortunately, Irene Harris suffered an unusual accident on Saturday. While
descending the Grand Staircase, she slipped on a damp spot where something
had been mopped up. She broke her arm in the fall, and was initially tended to
by Dr O’Loughlin; then, at her request, her arm was set by First Class
passenger Dr Henry Frauenthal. To everyone in First Class, this was the event
of the crossing, and word spread quickly. A number of passengers sent notes
to the Harrises cabin, conveying their hopes that she would get better soon.
May Futrelle, a friend of the Harrises, stayed with Irene ‘a great deal’ after
that. At dinner that evening, a good number of fellow First Class passengers
came up to the Harris’s table and wished Irene a swift recovery.
244
Eleanor Cassebeer had become fast ‘shipboard friends’ with Benjamin
Foreman. During the trip, she lent him a small book of epigrams that she was
reading. Things were so comfortable between the two that he began to tease
her over her somewhat sternly-tailored suits. ‘Is that the only thing you have?’
he would say with a laugh. ‘Come on, I bet you’ve got a real knockout hidden
away somewhere.’245
On one of the nights, after dinner, Elmer Taylor, his wife and his friend
Fletcher Williams were in the Reception Room listening to music from the
ship’s orchestra. Taylor recalled:
Williams was a democratic sort of chap, [and] did not hesitate to
move among the high, the less high or lowly, so after dinner he
selected a table for coffee in the Reception Room next to a table at
which Captain Smith was entertaining a party.
We were close enough to hear Captain Smith tell his party the ship
could be cut crosswise in three places and each piece would float.
246
Isaac Frauenthal, who had been so disturbed by two dreams of disaster before
boarding the Titanic, seemed to finally be relaxing:
The notion that the Titanic was unsinkable had taken hold everywhere.
The crowd contained many women and men of delightful personality.
The days and evenings were charmingly spent. Capt. Smith and his
officers seemed to be at pains to make everybody comfortable and
gay. If anybody ventured an opinion that we might sink that person
would have been hooted down.
247
Second Class passenger Lawrence Beesley recalled:
There is very little to relate from the time of leaving Queenstown on
Thursday to Sunday morning. The sea was calm, – so calm, indeed,
that very few were absent from meals: the wind westerly and
southwesterly, – “fresh” as the daily chart described it, – but often
rather cold, generally too cold to sit out on deck to read or write, so
that many of us spent a good part of the time in the library, reading and
writing. I wrote a large number of letters and posted them day by day
in the box outside the library door …
Each morning the sun rose behind us in a sky of circular clouds …
It was a beautiful sight to one who had not crossed the ocean before
(or indeed been out of sight of the shores of England) to stand on the
top deck and watch the swell of the sea extending outwards from the
ship in an unbroken circle until it met the sky-line with its hint of
infinity; behind, the wake of the vessel white with foam where, fancy
suggested, the propeller blades had cut up the long Atlantic rollers and
with them made a level white road bounded on either side by banks of
green, blue, and blue-green waves that would presently sweep away
the white road, though as yet it stretched back to the horizon and
dipped over the edge of the world back to Ireland … while along it
the morning sun glittered and sparkled. And each night the sun sank
right in our eyes along the sea, making an undulating glittering
pathway, a golden track charted on the surface of the ocean which our
ship followed unswervingly until the sun dipped below the edge of the
horizon, and the pathway ran ahead of us faster than we could steam
and slipped over the edge of the skyline, – as if the sun had been a
golden ball and had wound up its thread of gold too quickly for us to
follow.
248
One of the things that Beesley enjoyed doing was to stand on the Boat Deck …
… in the angle between lifeboats 13 and 15 on the starboard side …
and watch the general motion of the ship through the waves resolve
itself into two motions – one to be observed by contrasting the
docking-bridge, from which the log-line trailed away behind the
foaming wake, with the horizon, and observing the long, slow heave as
we rode up and down … The second motion was a side-to-side roll,
and could be calculated by watching the port rail and contrasting it
with the horizon as before.
Beesley also noticed the goings-on with the Third Class passengers, who
‘were enjoying every minute of the time: a most uproarious skipping game of
the mixed-double type was the great favourite, while “in and out and
roundabout” went a Scotchman with his bagpipes playing something that
Gilbert says “faintly resembled an air”.’ A couple of people in particular
stood out to him:
Standing aloof from all of them, generally on the raised stern deck
above the “playing field,” was a man of about twenty to twenty-four
years of age, well-dressed, always gloved and nicely groomed, and
obviously quite out of place among his fellow-passengers: he never
looked happy all the time. I watched him, and classified him at hazard
as the man who had been a failure in some way at home and had
received the proverbial shilling plus third-class fare to America: he
did not look resolute enough or happy enough to be working out his
own problem. Another interesting man was travelling steerage, but had
placed his wife in the second cabin: he would climb the stairs leading
from the steerage to the second deck and talk affectionately with his
wife across the low gate which separated them.
249
A splendid view of Olympic’s stern decks in September of 1920 gives a good idea of how this same
area on Titanic would have looked as Lawrence Beesley watched his fellow travelers.
As Beesley observed, things in Third Class were quite convivial. In fact, the
Irish among Third Class even managed to start some impromptu parties with
musical accompaniment.
Late Saturday evening, the east-bound Furness Withy vessel
Rappahannock emerged from ‘a heavy rain squall’ and found herself ‘abeam
of the Titanic, which, with all her lights glowing, made a splendid picture as
she passed’. Rappahannock’s Chief Officer Smith estimated that Titanic was
then making ‘about twenty-one knots’, and it did not take long before she
disappeared into the darkness astern of the smaller ship.250
At 8:00 p.m. that night, Senior Marconi Operator Jack Phillips sat down at
the key for his six-hour shift, and his assistant Harold Bride turned in. At
11:00 p.m., just three hours into his watch, Phillips began to have significant
trouble with the wireless apparatus. Soon, he roused Bride from his slumber
so that the junior operator could help Phillips get to the bottom of the
problem; only if they could find the trouble could they, perhaps, put it to right.
At first, Phillips thought the issue was that the condensers had broken. The
pair rummaged around the inner workings of the set until they had pulled out
the condensers and examined them for signs of damage. It turned out that
Phillips’ first instinct was off the mark, however, as the condensers were in
perfect shape. Phillips and Bride then had to find the real cause of the
problem, and they were put to a ‘deal of trouble’ before discovering the
source of the difficulty. It turned out that the leads from the secondary of the
transformer had burned through inside the casing and made contact with some
of the iron bolts which held the woodwork and frame together, ‘thereby
earthing the power to a great extent’. With the problem found, the solution was
not long in coming: ‘After binding these leads with rubber tape’, Bride
recalled, ‘we once more had the apparatus in perfect working order’.
However, the repairs had taken quite some time, and the system was only
working once more by ‘half-past four or five’.
251 Throughout the day on
Sunday, the two exhausted men would be forced to deal with a backlog of
messages, and it must have seemed they would never catch up.
While Phillips and Bride toiled to repair the wireless set, at midnight, the
ship’s clocks were set back. The clocks in the public spaces were set back by
45 minutes to 11:15 p.m. As was the typical custom, the first night watch took
a portion of the adjustment, in this case 23 minutes, and the second watch took
22 minutes.
252
Meanwhile, Benjamin Hart was not having a very good night’s sleep,
either. His wife Esther had been concerned about the dangers of the voyage
before they even boarded the ship. Throughout the crossing, however, she had
gradually become more accustomed to the voyage, although she recalled that
she was ‘still far from easy’ in her mind about their safety.
After the family had turned in to go to bed, Esther had just dozed off when
she was awakened by ‘a feeling as if some gigantic force had given the ship a
mighty push [from] behind’. The sensation was repeated a second and third
time, she thought. She struggled to full alertness, but was terrified, and
decided to wake her husband. ‘Ben, Ben wake up, get up, something dreadful
has happened or is going to happen.’
She remembered that her husband ‘was a little cross, as a man naturally is
when he is woke from a sound sleep by the ungrounded fears (as he thinks) of
a woman.’ When he saw how upset she was, however, he went up to the Boat
Deck, had a look around, and soon returned. He told her that the sea was calm
and the ship was traveling smoothly.
253
Day Five – Sunday, April 14, 1912.
It was a picturesque Sunday morning, bright and sunny. Elmer Taylor thought
that it ‘was one beautiful day – clear skies, smooth sea, perfect in every
respect.’254 Lady Duff Gordon said that the day ‘dawned calm and bright; the
sea was exceptionally still.’255 Colonel Archibald Gracie recalled that on
‘Sunday morning, April 14th, this marvellous ship … had, for three and onehalf days, proceeded on her way from Southampton to New York over a sea of
glass, so level it appeared, without encountering a ripple brought on the
surface of the water by a storm.’256 Seventeen-year-old Jack Thayer recalled
that Sunday morning ‘dawned bright and clear. It looked as if we were in for
another very pleasant day.’257
The Titanic lived, teemed with life, seemed a vibrant entity all her own.
As the great liner had been gradually increasing her speed ever since noon on
Saturday, she was then charging through the ocean at a speed faster than she
had ever attained and maintained for a long period of time.
258
Colonel Gracie had spent the voyage up to Sunday morning relaxing, and
without any form of physical activity beyond socializing. However …
… when Sunday morning came, I considered it high time to begin my
customary exercises, and determined for the rest of the voyage to
patronize the squash racquet court, the gymnasium, the swimming pool,
etc. I was up early before breakfast and met the professional racquet
player in a half hour’s warming up, preparatory for a swim in the sixfoot deep tank of salt water, heated to a refreshing temperature. In no
swimming bath had I ever enjoyed such pleasure before …
The racquet professional, [Fred] Wright, was a cleancut, typical
young Englishman, similar to hundreds I have seen and with whom I
have played, in bygone years, my favorite game of cricket, which has
done more than any other sport for my physical development …
To the swimming pool attendant I also made a promise to be on
hand earlier the next morning …
Gracie also made an appointment with Gymnasium Steward T. W. McCawley
– whom the Colonel described as one ‘of the characters of the ship, best
known to us all’ – for Monday morning. McCawley, a ‘sturdy little man in
white flannels’ and with a ‘broad English accent’, showed passengers ‘the
many mechanical devices under his charge and urged us to take advantage of
the opportunity of using them, going through the motions of bicycle racing,
rowing, boxing, camel and horseback riding, etc.’ Gracie said that the
rigorous physical activity gave him ‘an appetite for a hearty breakfast.’259
Over breakfast in the Second Class Dining Saloon, Benjamin Hart was
regaling their shipboard friends and table companions with the story of his
wife’s scare the night before, and how she thought that the ship had been in
trouble when nothing had happened. He told those around the table that on
Sunday night, he was going to insist upon Esther’s having a ‘strong glass of
hot grog’ to keep her quiet and make sure she stayed asleep.260
While passengers were lingering over breakfast, at 9:12 a.m. a wireless
message from the Cunarder Caronia came in. Addressed to Captain Smith by
title as well as by the prefix MSG, or ‘Master Service Message’, it warned:
[MSG] Captain Titanic. West-bound steamers report bergs, growlers,
and field ice in 42° N, from 49 to 51 W. April 12. Compliments.
[Captain] Barr.
261
This message was delivered directly to Captain Smith. Smith’s brief personal
acknowledgment to this message was sent at 10:28 a.m.:
Thanks for message and information. Have had variable weather
throughout – Smith.
262
Very shortly after giving this acknowledgment, Sunday services were held at
10:30 a.m. Captain Smith personally conducted the services in the First Class
Dining Saloon, and Elmer Taylor thought that they were ‘well attended’.
263
Smith concluded his service with the hymn ‘O God, Our Help in Ages Past’,
also known as the ‘Prayer For Those at Sea’ or ‘Eternal Father, Strong to
Save’. Gracie later recalled that this particular hymn was a favorite of his
shipboard friend, 56-year-old James Clinch Smith.
264
It seems that this
service was concluded at around 11:15 a.m.
265
First Class passenger James Clinch Smith.
The services in Second Class were conducted by Assistant Purser
Reginald Barker. Miss Susan Webber recalled that ‘everyone turned out to
church’.
266 Sydney C. Stuart Collett recalled that the service was
Episcopalian and that Barker, whom he referred to as ‘the chaplain’, read
from ‘the 13th Corinthians’.
267 Additionally, 42-year-old Second Class
passenger Thomas Byles – a pastor of the Headingly Hill church in Leeds,
England – conducted a Catholic mass in the Second Class Lounge; he also
conducted services for members of Third Class afterward.
Shortly after the main religious services had concluded in First and
Second Class, there came another series of noteworthy communications via
wireless. At 11:47 a.m., another message came in, this one from the Noordam,
relayed from the Caronia:
[MSG] Captain SS Titanic. Congratulations on new command. Had
moderate westerly winds, fair weather, no fog. Much ice in lat. 42°
24’ to 42° 45’ and long. 49° 50’ to 50° 20’. Compliments. [Captain]
Krol.
268
Miss Helen Ostby recalled the scene when Captain Smith most likely
received this message from the Noordam:
Late Sunday morning, as I was sitting on deck, Captain Edward Smith
was talking nearby to a few passengers when a steward came out and
handed him a message. Captain Smith looked at it, but then continued
talking for a while with the passengers.
269
At 12:31 p.m., Captain Smith’s response was sent:
Captain Noordam. Many thanks. Had moderate variable weather
throughout. Compliments. Smith.
270
At noon, the ship’s run was calculated at 546 miles, making for an average
speed of 22.06 knots. As Ismay had expected on Saturday afternoon, Sunday’s
run was better than the previous day’s, and stood as the best of the voyage so
far. Ever since the Titanic had left Southampton, there was discussion among
certain members of the passengers and crew that the ship would be arriving in
New York on the night of Tuesday, April 16 rather than Wednesday morning.
Although the point had been in some doubt on Saturday, Sunday’s run renewed
those hopes – and with good reason.
The trans-Atlantic route which Titanic was following encompassed 2,891
nautical miles from Daunt’s Rock Light to the Ambrose Light, and of that total,
she had covered 1,549 nautical miles, with only 1,342 left to cover. Even if
the ship had only maintained her speed carried from noon Saturday to noon
Sunday, she would cover about 1,100 further miles by noon on Tuesday,
giving her only about 240 further miles to steam before she reached the
Ambrose Light and entered New York waters. So unless the great liner had
been slowed significantly after noon on Sunday, she would almost certainly
finish her trans-Atlantic passage late Tuesday night rather than her officiallyscheduled arrival time of 5:00 a.m. Wednesday.
Yet Titanic was not only due to maintain her speed from Saturday to
Sunday … she still had more to give. There was talk among the passengers
and crew alike that she would make an even better run on Monday or Tuesday,
and this was more than idle gossip. Ismay had been kept well apprised of his
new liner’s progress throughout the voyage. While anchored in Queenstown,
the White Star Managing Director had called Chief Engineer Joseph Bell to
his cabin, and discussed the matter of Titanic’s performance. Ismay later said
that it was ‘our intention if we had fine weather on Monday afternoon or
Tuesday to drive the ship at full speed … for a few hours.’271 Second Officer
Lightoller and some of the other officers also discussed the subject of the
ship’s top speed, and they were ‘interested’ in seeing what she could do.272
As Titanic was a new ship, among their typical at-sea duties the officers
were engaged in an additional task: computing and recording what was called
a slip table. Fifth Officer Lowe described it as a…
… table based upon so many revolutions of engines and so much per
cent of slip; and you work that out, and that gives you so many miles
per hour. This table extended from the rate of 30 revolutions a minute
to the rate of 85 and from a percentage of 10 to 40 per cent slip; that
is, minus. We were working it all out, and of course it was not
finished.273
Once this slip table had been worked out, the ship’s officers would have a
very good idea of what speed the ship was traveling, not accounting for
current or other weather conditions, just by reading the speed of her engines.
When complete, this would prove a very useful tool for the purposes of dead
reckoning the ship’s position. A good showing of high speed on Monday or
Tuesday would have aided the officers in completing the higher end of this
slip table.
Since a high-speed run was completely dependent upon the weather,
which is notoriously finicky off the Grand Banks, it would have been
preferable to carry out the run sooner rather than later. On Sunday morning,
the last three main boilers were lit, and their steam would gradually be built
up and then applied to the engines as the day progressed. By Sunday evening,
the ship would be steaming under full pressure from all twenty-four of her
primary boilers, at a greater speed than she had ever attained before.
It also seems likely that for this run, the ship’s five auxiliary boilers,
located in Boiler Room No. 1, would have been employed. Although they
were not lit at any point on Sunday, they most likely would have been fired
afterward; it would have taken about twelve hours for them to build pressure
before they could be applied to the engines.
274
If they were fired soon after
midnight that night, then they would have been ready to contribute to the ship’s
speed shortly after noon on Monday. Starting the high speed run shortly after
noon would also have given the Titanic’s officers fresh data to calculate the
speed trials with a fresh sighting of the sun, for precise computations
afterwards.
First Class passenger C. E. Henry Stengel.
First Class passenger Annie Stengel in 1919.
A 1916 photo of First Class passenger Norman Chambers.
Fifty-four-year-old First Class passenger Charles E. Henry Stengel had
boarded the Titanic at Cherbourg, France, along with his 44-year-old wife
Annie. He recalled of Sunday:
As is usual in these voyages, there were pools made to bet on the
speed that the boat would make, and at 12 o’clock, after the whistle
blew, the people who had bet went to the smoking room, and came out
and reported she had made 546 knots. I figured then that at 24 hours to
a day we made 22¾ knots; but I was told I was mistaken; that I should
have figured 25 hours … on account of the elapsed time, I believe,
which made it almost 22 knots an hour. At the same time a report came
– this was the report that came from the engine room – that the engines
were turning three revolutions faster than at any time on the voyage.
275
Lunch was served at about 1:00 p.m. With the impressive run having just been
posted for passengers to see, this was sure to be a hot topic of conversation
around the various tables. In the Second Class Dining Saloon, as Beesley and
others conversed with Assistant Purser Reginald Barker, the subject of the
ship’s daily run naturally came up. Everyone was glad to see that a better run
had been made, ‘and it was thought we should make New York, after all, on
Tuesday night’, Beesley recalled.
Barker ventured: ‘They are not pushing her this trip and don’t intend to
make any fast running: I don’t suppose we shall do more than 546 now; it is
not a bad day’s run for the first trip.’
The conversation then continued to the subject of Titanic being ‘the most
comfortable boat’, far superior to the Cunard speedsters, which ‘bore through
the waves with a twisted, screw-like motion instead of the straight up-anddown swing of the Titanic.’
Beesley pointed out to the others at his table something that he had noticed
before, while watching the ship’s motion in his favorite spot between
lifeboats 13 and 15: Titanic was listing slightly to port. Everyone turned and
watched the horizon through the portholes on either side, and it was
immediately clear how accurate Beesley’s observation was. On the port side,
the horizon and sea were ‘visible most of the time’ from their seated vantage
point, while on the starboard side they could see ‘only sky’.
Purser Barker said that it was most likely that the coal supply had been
used more from the starboard side. In light of the fact that the starboard coal
bunker at the forward end of Boiler Room No. 5 had been emptied to douse
the fire, Barker’s observation was spot on.
276
Twenty-seven-year-old First Class passenger Norman C. Chambers, who
lived in New York, New York, was traveling with his 32-year-old wife,
Bertha. Like Beesley, Chambers noticed this odd orientation of the ship,
recalling that ‘all day long [Titanic] had a slight list to port.’277
The list was certainly slight, for it did not alarm any of the passengers,
and only the most observant among them seemed to notice it. It did nothing to
spoil the trip. Indeed, Second Class passenger Nora Keane recalled that the
‘voyage was one of the finest I have ever taken’.
278
That afternoon, the temperature had reached a high of about 48°.
279
However after lunch, many passengers from all three classes emerged from
their Dining Saloons to find an unpleasant change in the weather. The
temperatures had begun to drop. There was also a stiff wind blowing all that
day. Although the wind was tolerable before lunch, the falling temperatures
combined with the wind caused the decks to be so chilly and breezy that not
many people cared to remain outside.
280 Second Class Passenger Lawrence
Beesley recalled that it was a ‘bitter’ wind.281 Because of the chill, the
interior spaces of the ship were heavily populated all afternoon. Beesley went
to the Second Class Library on C Deck, and although he found that it was
quite crowded, he remained there throughout the afternoon.
282
Benjamin Hart, one of Beesley’s fellow Second Class passengers, was a
man who never seemed to have a problem with extremes of heat and cold. He
was cool in the summer, and warm in the winter. That afternoon, however,
Mrs Hart saw him rubbing his hands together. ‘How cold it has turned’, he
said to Esther and little Eva. ‘I feel as if there was not a warm drop of blood
in my body. Come and have a romp with daddy,’ he offered to Eva. Together,
they went up to the Boat Deck and romped around for a while.
283
Miss Helen Ostby noticed that while the first few days of the voyage
‘were fairly mild’, on Sunday it had ‘begun to get quite chilly’.
284 Elmer
Taylor remembered:
About 4:00 P.M., it began to grow quite cold. The temperature
dropped so suddenly that it was generally accepted that we were
approaching icebergs.
After tea, it was bitterly cold outside, but comfortably warm in all
public rooms. Our little party exchanged impressions, gossiped and
otherwise wasted time until we parted to ‘clean up’ for dinner.
285
Philipp Mock and his sister Emma Schabert had been enjoying the trip
thoroughly. On Sunday, they also noticed the drop in temperature, although
they recalled things a little differently from Taylor:
In spite of the fact that the weather was clear, the boat was cold
throughout. People sat around in the lounging rooms with their coats
and furs on, and complained a good deal about the cold … [P]eople
talked about the low temperature and wondered why the boat was not
heated more comfortably.
Assistant Saloon Steward Walter Nichols.
Mock overheard a woman near him ask a steward why the boat was so cold.
The steward replied that the ship would soon ‘be surrounded by ice’.
286
First Class passenger Margaret Brown remembered that everyone was
‘restlessly searching for a warm place. The comfortable chairs in the lounge
held but a few, as a shaft of cold air seemed to penetrate every nook and
corner, and chill the marrow. Heavy furs and warm clothing were donned.’287
It seems that the ship’s heating system was still not functioning entirely
properly, even as late as Sunday, and that some public rooms were colder than
others.
Thirty-five-year-old Assistant Saloon Steward Walter Nichols had been
busy that morning, but he was not too busy to notice the cold:
All day Sunday it was very cold, although the weather was fine …
There were services on board … in the first and second cabins. I was
busy with my work and didn’t go … I didn’t go on deck. On a big boat
like that a man working inside doesn’t go on deck often. Sometimes
you don’t get a peep at the water for days at a time. It’s just like
working in a big hotel. But I knew that it was mighty cold outside, and
I knew what the reason was, too. I’ve crossed enough to know that
when it gets cold like that at this season it’s because there’s icebergs
around. And if we fellows down below knew it I guess the navigating
officers knew it, too.288
Indeed, the officers were well aware of the proximity of ice – and they grew
more aware of it as the day passed. First Officer Murdoch had the 10:00 a.m.
to 2:00 p.m. watch on the Bridge. However, the officers’ lunch was served at
12:30. Lightoller returned to the Bridge at that time to relieve Murdoch and let
him grab a quick bite to eat. Murdoch did not return until 1:00–1:05 p.m.
At about 12:45 p.m., Captain Smith came on to the Bridge. Lightoller
recalled that in his hands, the Captain held ‘a wireless message, a
Marconigram’. Spotting Lightoller, he crossed the Bridge, ‘and holding it in
his hands told me to read it … [He] held it out in his hand and showed it to
me.’ Lightoller looked at it, particularly making ‘a mental note of the
meridians – 49 to 51’ degrees west longitude. It was the Caronia’s ice
message, received at 9:12 a.m., that Smith had showed him.
This was the first that Lightoller recalled hearing anything about icebergs
ahead of the ship. When Murdoch returned from his lunch, the Second Officer
mentioned the encounter with Captain Smith and the message regarding ice.
Murdoch showed no overt surprise, but Lightoller was under the impression
that the subject was new to the First Officer, just as it had been to him. Then
Lightoller headed off to grab a bite of lunch for himself.
289
Even as most passengers were enjoying their lunch, two more important
messages were received in the Marconi Room. The first came in at 1:49
p.m.,
290
 and was from the German steamer Amerika:
To the steamer ‘Titanic’ [MSG] via Cape Race to the Hydrographic
Office, Washington, DC ‘Amerika’ passed two large icebergs in 41°
27’ N 50° 8’ W, on the 14th April. [Captain] Knuth.
291
Titanic’s operators dutifully passed this message on to other ships. Since it
was concerning navigation, and specifically tagged as a Master Service
Message, it should also have been taken to the Bridge, but there is no
evidence that this was done. In fact, no one knows what happened to it after
the operators relayed the transmission.
Only five minutes later, at 1:54 p.m., the White Star liner Baltic sent
another message containing warning of ice ahead.
[MSG] Captain Smith, Titanic: Have had mod[erate] var[iable] winds
and clear fine weather since leaving. Greek steamer Athinai reports
passing icebergs and large quantities of field ice today in lat. 41.51’
N, long. 49.52’ W. Last night we spoke [with] German oil-tank
steamer Deutschland, Stettin to Philadelphia, not under control, short
of coal, lat. 40.42 N, long. 55.11’ W. Wishes to be reported to New
York and other steamers. Wish you and Titanic all success.
Commander [Ranson].
292
This message was delivered to Captain Smith. Shortly afterwards, he ran
across Bruce Ismay walking with some other passengers on deck. Ismay was
about to head down for a late lunch. Without saying a word, perhaps because
passengers were present, Smith handed Ismay the Marconigram. On previous
voyages, Smith had occasionally given Ismay a telegram to read; Ismay took
the message and ‘glanced at it very casually’, reading it silently. No words
passed between the two men, and Ismay put the message in his pocket, before
proceeding down to lunch.
293
At 2:57 p.m., an hour after this latest warning had arrived, Captain
Smith’s response was sent out:
Commander Baltic. Thanks for your message and good wishes. Had
fine weather since leaving. Smith.
294
The Baltic’s message was the fourth ice warning of the day, although one of
the four does not seem to have been delivered to anyone on the Bridge. It was
the fifth ice warning received during the crossing.
First Class passengers Mr & Mrs Edward Crosby were strolling along the
Promenade Deck about mid-afternoon that Sunday, when they spotted a scene
similar to that noticed by Walter and Mahala Douglas the previous day. They
saw at least two seamen lowering a bucket to take the water’s temperature.
Mr Crosby was a seasoned sailor, and he explained the process to his wife as
they watched. They must have been quite close to the seamen, as they
overheard them mention to one another that the water temperature was colder,
indicating that the boat was in the vicinity of ice fields.
295
As Lady Duff Gordon and her husband Sir Cosmo walked about the open
decks that afternoon, she was impressed with the fineness of the day.
However, she was also a bit taken aback at how, as the day continued …
… the cold increased. The wind was the coldest I ever felt … As we
walked round the deck I shivered in my warmest furs.
‘I have never felt so cold’, I said to Cosmo. ‘Surely there must be
icebergs around.’
He made fun of my ignorance, and Captain Smith, who happened to
be passing, assured me that we were right away from the ice zone.
Miss Francatelli, my secretary, and I went into my cabin and shut
up all the portholes and lit the electric stove to try to get warm, but it
was no use, and when we all three went down to the restaurant we
kept on our thick clothes instead of dressing for dinner.
296
Despite the cold, many passengers were thoroughly enjoying the day. Mrs
Mahala Douglas recalled that on Sunday …
… we had a delightful day; everyone in the best of spirits; the time the
boat was making was considered very good, and all were interested in
getting into New York early.
297
Similarly, May Futrelle remembered:
All that afternoon and in the evening, everyone was discussing the
probability of arriving in New York on Wednesday [sic, Tuesday]. It
was regarded as certain that the Titanic would make her trip in record
time …
The sea was so calm and the motion of the boat so slight that it was
hardly noticeable.
298
John Thayer, his wife Marian and son Jack spent much of the day walking the
ship’s decks. In the course of their walks, they came across Bruce Ismay,
Thomas Andrews, Charles Hays and a number of others. They spent quite a
lot of time talking to these people. But that afternoon, Jack noticed that it was
getting much colder. He recalled bumping into Ismay after lunch. Ismay
showed them ‘a wire regarding the presence of ice’, and remarked that they
would not reach that position until about nine o’clock that night.
299 The White
Star Chairman also told the Thayers: ‘Two more boilers are to be opened up
today.’300
Down in Second Class, Lawrence Beesley was still seeking shelter from
the cold. Through the port and starboard windows of the Second Class
Library – a half-dozen of them were located on either side of the room –
Beesley and the other occupants of the Library could watch people walking by
on the Second Class Enclosed Promenade to port and starboard. Among these,
a number of young children could be seen playing or walking with their
families.
Beesley specifically recalled seeing a man who had previously identified
himself as Louis Hoffman, along with his two children, aged two and three.
The 32-year-old Hoffman, however, was in actuality named Michel Navratil,
and he was a tailor from Nice, France. Navratil and his wife, Marcelle, were
separated; Navratil’s business was in trouble, and he also claimed that
Marcelle was having an affair. The boys, 3-year-old Michel and 2-year-old
Edmond, had gone with their mother when the couple separated. When the two
children had stayed with their father for the Easter weekend, Michel decided
to take them with him to America; apparently, he hoped that his wife would
follow them, and that they would reunite and be able to make a new life in the
‘Land of Opportunity’. He took the two boys, traveled to Monte Carlo and
thence to England, stopping over at the Charing Cross Hotel in London. Then
they had traveled on to Southampton, where Navratil had purchased their
tickets under the alias of ‘Hoffman’.
It is unlikely, on that Sunday afternoon, that Beesley knew Navratil’s real
name or the family’s startling story. However, he had already become
acquainted with the trio well enough to recognize them by sight as the children
played. He would only find out more about their story later on. Among the
others Beesley saw were a man and wife and their two children – the father
was an avid photographer who took his camera wherever he went on board;
there were also two American ladies who seemed to be friends, one of them
returning from India, the other a graceful, distinguished looking school teacher
wearing a pair of pince-nez; also their acquaintance, who hailed from
Cambridge, Massachusetts; a couple playing patience, with the husband
frequently dropping strategy suggestions to his wife; a pair of Catholic priests,
one reading while the other with an open Bible was ‘earnestly’ explaining a
verse to a friend in German ...
Beyond the outer Promenade windows, Beesley could see the clear blue
sky and brilliant wash of sunlight which ‘seemed to augur a fine night and a
clear day to-morrow, and the prospect of landing in two days, with calm
weather all the way to New York, was a matter of general satisfaction among
us all.’
At the notice-board where the ship’s run was posted, Beesley chatted with
a fellow Second Class passenger, 54-year-old Reverend Ernest Carter. In the
course of their conversation, Carter mentioned to Beesley that there was no
evening service planned. He asked Beesley if he ‘knew the purser well
enough to request the use of the saloon in the evening where he would like to
have a “hymn sing-song”.’ Beesley made the request, and the Purser agreed at
once. Mr Carter asked everyone that he came across that afternoon to come
down to the Dining Saloon at 8:30, shortly after dinner had ended. He was
assisted in this endeavor by Sidney Collett, who ‘went about and announced
that if anyone was interested in a song service to come into the saloon.’301
Once Beesley had taken the opportunity to liaise this ‘hymn sing-song’, he
returned to the Library. There he decided to tackle the scintillating task of
filling out United States Customs Declarations Forms, which had been
distributed by the Library Steward just that afternoon. ‘Form for nonresidents
in the United States. Steamship Titanic: No. 31444, D’, the form began …302
Imanita Shelley thought that everyone on board realized that the ship was
in the ‘ice belt’, because of the dramatic drop in temperature. She also was
aware that wireless messages with ice warnings had been received.
Interestingly, she later heard that some First Class passengers had asked
Captain Smith if the ship would slow down while traveling through the ice.
The Captain’s response – she was told – was that, on the contrary, the ship
‘would be speeded through’.
303
Olympic’s Second Class Library in a publicity photo from the 1920’s. The scene gives an idea of
how Titanic’s Library looked on Sunday afternoon.
Olympic stationary, as well as a White Star envelope and playing card.
In Third Class, Elizabeth Dowdell thought that the voyage up to that point
had been a delightful one. The weather had been ‘very fine’ and ‘the sea was
quite calm’. Indeed her cabin-mate, Amy Stanley, ‘had not suffered from
seasickness at all during the voyage. Many of the passengers seemed to enjoy
the sun’s rays that Sunday afternoon.’ However, she noticed that as the
afternoon passed, it grew progressively colder. By that night, she thought that
‘it was almost too cold to be out on deck at all’.
304
The usual custom on every crossing was to have one lifeboat drill for the
crew, generally on Sundays. Many of the crew expected that this Sunday
would be no different. However, Lookout Archie Jewell recalled that the boat
drill for that day was canceled because the wind was so strong. Putting men
on the deck and practicing with a lifeboat, even on the lee side of the ship,
would probably have been more dangerous than if the weather was calmer. As
a boat drill had been carried out in Southampton before departure – which
included lowering the lifeboats to the water, rowing around, and re-shipping
them – it was probably felt that an at-sea lifeboat drill in high winds was
simply not worth the risk.
305
The rather crowded nature of many of the ship’s public rooms led to a lot
of socializing among passengers. This scenario created a prime conduit for an
interchange of information. All over the ship that Sunday afternoon, there was
a lot of talk that the ship was going to speed up on Monday. Some passengers
heard information to this effect directly from various members of the crew.
Edith Rosenbaum had found the day ‘brilliantly clear but icily cold’. As a
result, she stayed in her stateroom, A-11, until 4 o’clock. During that day, her
Bedroom Steward, 36-year-old Robert A. Wareham, informed her that ‘the
Titanic was making a record run. She was expected to dock in New York by
Tuesday.’ Miss Rosenbaum remembered that the …
… sea was extraordinarily calm, and the great engines had not yet
been pushed to their capacity. Anchor pools were taken up as
passengers wagered on the exact time we would berth at the … dock
in New York.
Later that afternoon she took a walk on the deck, and then she began to get
ready for the ‘gala dinner’ that evening.
306
Martha Stephenson remarked to her Bedroom Steward, John Penrose,
about the 546-mile run posted that noon. Penrose replied that that run was
nothing to what they would do the following day. He thought that they might
even achieve a run of 580 miles, which would have meant an average speed
of 23.4 knots. This was perhaps a rather high expectation considering
Titanic’s mechanical capabilities, but if the weather held the next run would
certainly be better than any previous run of the crossing.
307
Another pair of First Class passengers received similar news, but this
time it came from a fellow passenger rather than a member of the crew. Their
story began between five and six o’clock, when Marian Thayer invited her
friend Emily Ryerson to walk around the decks with her. Emily and her
husband Arthur were traveling under a dark cloud; their son had been killed in
an automobile accident in Pennsylvania the previous week. Up to that point in
the voyage, Emily Ryerson had refrained from going on deck during the day,
but had instead stayed in her cabin. She had only gone out with her husband at
dinner time. On this evening, however, Emily Ryerson decided to accept the
invitation for a walk. The two friends strolled around the Promenade Deck for
a while. The weather was ‘very cold’, but ‘perfectly beautiful’. At around six
o’clock, the sky was becoming colorful as sunset approached, and the pair
finally decided to rest on a nearby set of deck chairs near the doors that led to
the aft Grand Staircase. These particular chairs were not specifically assigned
to Mrs Ryerson, but as no one was sitting in them, there was no harm in
resting here for a few minutes.
As they watched the sea pass by and the sky began to turn ‘quite pink’,
Bruce Ismay happened across the two women. Mrs Ryerson knew Ismay by
sight, as they had been introduced on a prior trip, and they had a number of
mutual acquaintances. Ismay had been made aware of the tragic circumstances
of their voyage, and when they had boarded in Cherbourg, he had offered an
extra stateroom and steward to the traveling party, and they had accepted.
When Ismay, wearing a dark blue suit, stopped, he said to Mrs Ryerson: ‘I
hope you are comfortable, and are all right.’
Ismay was a man of ‘striking personality’, and it was said that in any
group, he ‘arrested attention and dominated the scene’. People who were not
well acquainted with him generally found him a rather grating personality, and
came off with the impression that he was austere, taciturn, or hard.
Meanwhile, Mrs Ryerson felt emotionally overwhelmed at the time, still
grieving the loss of her son. She carried on a conversation ‘merely to keep the
ball going’, even though she did not particularly feel like talking. Yet Ismay
stayed, even choosing to sit down upon an adjacent deck chair.
Beneath his jarring personality, however, Ismay cared deeply about
people; it seems very likely that his entire reason for stopping to talk with Mrs
Ryerson and Mrs Thayer was that he was genuinely concerned about how Mrs
Ryerson was coping with her loss. The conversation continued for perhaps
five to ten minutes, touching on a couple of different subjects, but the whole
thing seems to have been a bit awkward. Perhaps sensing this, Ismay
eventually fell back on a favorite subject of passengers during a trans-Atlantic
voyage: the crossing itself. ‘We are in among the icebergs’, he said rather offhandedly. As proof of the statement, he fished around in his pocket and
produced the Baltic’s Marconigram – which Captain Smith had handed him
earlier in the day – and showed it to the two women without handing it to
them. ‘We are not going very fast, 20 or 21 knots, but we are going to start up
some extra boilers this evening.’
This particular tidbit, about firing extra boilers, was beyond the full
technical grasp of Mrs Ryerson, but she knew that it meant that the ship would
be speeding up. However, she did notice that within the message was the
mention of another vessel, one that seemed to be in trouble. She asked: ‘What
is the rest of the telegram?’
‘It is the Deutschland, wanting a tow, not under control,’ Ismay replied.
‘What are you going to do about that?’ Mrs Ryerson asked.
Ismay replied that they weren’t going to do anything about it, but that
instead, they were going to ‘get in and surprise everybody’.
Just then, Arthur Ryerson and John Thayer, Sr approached their wives and
Mr Ismay. In response, Ismay rose, and went in through the nearby Entrance
doors. As Mr & Mrs Ryerson went down the aft Grand Staircase together,
headed for their stateroom, Mrs Ryerson spied Ismay standing at the foot of
the stairs on B Deck, in the à la carte Restaurant Reception Room. As the
couple made their way to their rooms, they discussed what they would do if
the ship got in to New York on late Tuesday night rather than early Wednesday
morning. They need not have worried so much about how they would handle
such a situation, however, for White Star clearly outlined to their passengers
that, should the steamer arrive at the wharf in New York after 8:00 p.m., they
were welcome to stay overnight and disembark after breakfast the following
morning.
308
On the Bridge as the afternoon progressed into evening, the senior officers
were becoming more and more aware of the fact that there was ice ahead of
the Titanic. Third Officer Pitman, who was standing the 12:00–4:00 p.m.
watch with First Officer Murdoch, remembered that while he was on duty, he
saw two actual Marconigrams regarding ice ahead – one of which was this
message from the Caronia.
309
Fourth Officer Boxhall was the junior officer on duty during the First Dog
Watch, which ran from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. During that span of two hours,
he proceeded to the Officers’ Chart Room, which was just on the port side of
amidships, directly abaft the Wheelhouse. In this Chart Room, which was
separate from the Captain’s personal Chart Room, there was a chest of
drawers, where all the charts were placed. Lightoller recalled that they were
‘necessarily big drawers, to contain the charts fully laid out, and also drawers
for navigational books, instruction books, and so on … A track chart is
always lying on that chart room table … There are little pads, position pads,
and deviation pads, and it is customary to tear off one of these chits and write
on the back.’ Such notes were ‘left on the chart room table, lying on top of the
chart’, Lightoller said.310
The Bridge of the Olympic in a photo taken by Francis Browne.
This is precisely what Fourth Officer Boxhall proceeded to do. He saw
the Caronia’s 9:12 a.m. Marconigram on the notice board over the table,
‘copied it on a chit and took it into the Captain’s chart room’, where he ‘put it
on the chart’.
311 He copied the position out so that he would not have to take
the original down from the notice board in the Officers’ Chart Room.
At some point during the afternoon, Captain Smith made out what was
called the night order book. Therein, he ordered the next major course change
to be carried out at 5:50 p.m. It seems likely that it was at this same time that
he made a footnote in the night order book, mentioning that a sharp lookout for
ice needed to be kept overnight. Every Officer of the Watch was required to
consult the night order book for any special instructions, and then to initial it
as proof they had received the orders, as well.
312 By placing this note in the
night order book, rather than relying on word of mouth, Captain Smith was
efficiently ensuring that all the senior Officers of the Watch remained vigilant
with regard to the ice ahead.
On the southern steamer track, which the Titanic was then using, the ship
was due to make her last major course correction when she reached the
position 42° north latitude by 47° west longitude. This course correction,
called ‘turning the corner’, would take her from a southwesterly course to a
more westerly one which would very closely line her up with the entrance to
New York harbor. When the ship made this course change at 5:50 p.m., she
had traveled about 129 miles from her noon location at an average speed of
about 22.3 knots through the water, or about 22.12 knots in actual speed made
good.313 Thus, when she made the turn, Titanic was about three nautical miles
from the actual location of The Corner. When the turn was made, the officers
intended to settle her on a new course of approximately 265° true, lining her
up almost perfectly with the entrance to New York Harbor.
314
This map of the North Atlantic shows Titanic’s intended route, and all of her known positions from
Southampton through to when she turned ‘The Corner’ on Sunday evening.
Did They Turn the Corner Late?
On the Titanic’s route, after steaming roughly southwest from Ireland for about 1,600
nautical miles, she would reach the location where she needed to make the final major
course change. This point was located at 42° N, 47° W, and was commonly referred to as
‘The Corner’. Upon reaching these coordinates, the ship was turned to starboard, falling
onto a nearly due-west course, which more or less lined up with the entrance to New York
Harbor at the mouth of the Ambrose Channel.
Titanic’s noon position on Sunday, April 14, was 43° 02’ N, 44° 31’ W, a distance of
1,549 nautical miles from Daunt’s Rock Light over the route that the Titanic was steaming
on. According to Fifth Officer Lowe, the ship steamed on a course of 240.6° true from
noon until she turned the corner at 5:50 p.m.
315 The Corner was located some 126 miles
from the Titanic’s noon position.
316 During the afternoon, Captain Smith left written
instructions in the night order book to make this course correction at 5:50 p.m.
According to Third Officer Pitman and Fourth Officer Boxhall, in ordering the course
correction to be made at 5:50 p.m., Captain Smith was delaying ‘turning the corner’ by a
significant distance, allowing the ship to steam southwest of her typical route before turning
for New York. In fact, Boxhall recalled that at some point between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00
p.m., he brought the matter up with Chief Officer Wilde, who was then serving as Officer
of the Watch. Boxhall told Wilde that he thought that ‘the course ought to have been
altered some considerable time before 5.50 – that is, if it was meant to be altered at the
corner. Whether we spoke to the Captain about it or not I do not know … I consider that
the ship was away to the southward and to the westward of [the corner] when the course
was altered.’
317
If this was the case, one is forced to ask: why would Captain Smith have deviated from
his regular route in such a manner? After the fact, it has been suggested that this
divergence was an attempt to steam further south, so as to avoid the ice which was
reported ahead of the ship. On the surface, this all seems to fit together nicely, and it has
been reported in many books and documentaries on the subject. However, there is no
evidence that Captain Smith ever said anything of that sort to any of the officers; rather,
this seems to have been a conclusion made by others based upon supposition. More than
that, as with so much else with the Titanic’s history, there is a great deal of evidence that
suggests that this story is inaccurate. What kind of evidence? First, let’s see why the ship’s
officers believed that the course change was made late.
After midnight that night, Fourth Officer Boxhall computed the ship’s position as being
41° 46’ N, 50° 14 W. This position was some 146 miles beyond ‘The Corner’. Boxhall
arrived at those coordinates via dead reckoning, working with an estimated speed of 22
knots. Working backward from those coordinates for 5 hours and 50 minutes from 11:40
p.m. at 22 knots ostensibly placed the Titanic some 18 nautical miles west and slightly
south of ‘The Corner’ when she made that turn at 5:50 p.m. It was based upon this dead
reckoning position that everyone believed that the ship steamed past the corner before
changing course.
So far, the pieces fit together nicely. At the time, there seemed little reason to doubt the
accuracy of Boxhall’s dead reckoning position. Thus there seemed little reason to doubt
that the Titanic had turned the corner late. However, today we know – as no one did in
1912 – that Boxhall’s dead reckoning position was actually some 13 miles off. If the dead
reckoning position was inaccurate, then that threw off all reverse-engineered estimates
about the ship turning the corner late.
Some might argue, however, that Boxhall believed – between 4:00 and 6:00 p.m. – that
the course change should have been made prior to 5:50 p.m. However, what Boxhall
thought that afternoon – assuming he was remembering the situation accurately – is not
necessarily firm evidence of a delay. For example, we know that although the Titanic’s
speed through the water was very high through the day on Sunday, her forward progress
was being impeded somewhat by the effect of the currents. A full set of stellar
observations would not be taken until after the course change at 5:50 p.m., so throughout
the day, the officers were running off the ship’s noontime position.
If, between 4:00 and 6:00 p.m., Boxhall felt that the ship had been making better
progress than she actually was, this could easily explain why he surmised that they would
be turning the corner late at 5:50 p.m. Interestingly, when he brought this matter to Chief
Officer Wilde’s attention, it seems that nothing was done about it. This could be evidence
that no one wished to question the veracity of Captain Smith’s computations. However, it
may also suggest that Boxhall was mistaken in his belief that the ship was steaming beyond
The Corner, and that the senior officers – aware of the retarding effect of the current –
saw no need to discuss the matter with the Captain.
Looking at things from Captain Smith’s perspective that afternoon, and working out the
mathematics, it would seem that the Commander was apparently allowing for a ‘speed
made good’ of about 21.6 knots from the noontime position, rather than the roughly 22.11
knots the ship was actually managing. In other words, Captain Smith had roughly
accounted for the currents’ effects when he wrote the order to change course at 5:50 p.m.
However, he slightly under-estimated the rate of the ship’s actual forward progress. The
difference between his estimated geographic speed of what the liner was making, and her
actual speed made good put the liner about three miles southwest of The Corner when she
made the turn.
Looking at the location of the wreck, and working backward from that point, and
working forward from the ship’s noon position on Sunday, and then factoring in the exact
time that the ship made her course correction that evening, it is not difficult to see that
Captain Smith was really sticking quite close to the ship’s standard route. In reality, the
Titanic was only about three miles southwest of The Corner when her course was actually
adjusted.
318
At six o’clock, Second Officer Charles Lightoller became Officer of the
Watch, relieving Chief Officer Wilde; Lightoller was set to remain in
command until ten. Third Officer Pitman and Fifth Officer Lowe were the
junior officers on duty during the 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Second Dog Watch.
For at least part of the time he was on duty that evening, Lowe was in the
Chart Room directly abaft the Wheelhouse, continuing work on the slip table.
During his watch, he recalled that the barometric pressure was 29.80 inches,
and he thought that it did not seem particularly cold during his watch. It ‘could
not have been less than 45’, he felt.
319
‘Shortly after 6’ o’clock, Lowe happened to casually notice something
else. There ‘was a slip that showed the position of the ice, the latitude and
longitude’, which was ‘stuck in the angle of [the] frame’ of the ‘Chart Room
table’. This was the same ‘3 x 3’ chit of paper that Boxhall had shortly before
transcribed from the Caronia’s Marconigram. Although the sighting’s source
was not given in the note, and there was no signature of who had written it
out, Lowe did know that the note had only just been placed there, because he
had not noticed it before. However, the Fifth Officer believed that the
coordinates were ‘to the northward of our track’, and that they ‘would not
come within the limits of the ice regions’ during his watch. Thus, he didn’t
pay any further attention to the note.
320
Third Officer Herbert Pitman was on duty simultaneously with Lowe.
When he began his watch, at 6:00 p.m., Pitman noticed that several
coordinates – denoting the position of wireless ice sightings – had been
clearly marked on the chart. Pitman assumed that they had been made by either
Fourth Officer Boxhall or Sixth Officer Moody.
321
In the beautiful, crisp air, the sun began to sink on the horizon ahead of the
mighty Titanic. Second Officer Lightoller, standing on the Bridge, would have
had a spectacular view of the sunset, which took place at about 6:52 p.m.
322
As night began to envelop the Titanic, the stars began to appear in the sky –
initially in the darker eastern sky, and then in an ever-expanding canopy which
would eventually meet the western horizon ahead of the ship. Lightoller
recalled that at about 7:00 p.m., the outside temperature was 43°F.
323 At the
same time, a great stillness began to set in. While a fresh breeze had been
blowing all day long, as the sun set, Lookout Archie Jewell noticed that the
wind began to abate.
324
Dinner for the officers had been served at 6:30 p.m. in the Officers’ Mess,
which was located aft on the Boat Deck, on the starboard side of the
deckhouse below the No. 3 funnel. First Officer Murdoch, then off duty, had
taken the opportunity to have his meal. Then he headed up to the Bridge,
arriving there at about 7:05. Upon arrival, he took the watch for a half-hour so
that Lightoller could have his own dinner.
325
This publicity photograph was taken aboard the Olympic in the 1920s. It shows men and women
enjoying dinner in the First Class Dining Saloon. The scene on Titanic would have been very
similar on Sunday evening.

D
CHAPTER 3
THE EVE OF DISASTER
inner for First Class passengers was set to be served at around seven
o’clock. Bruce Ismay had been planning to dine in the Restaurant. Since
he was alone, he decided to ask Ship’s Surgeon Dr William O’Loughlin to
join him. He must have made the decision rather late, because it was only at
about seven o’clock that Dr O’Loughlin found out about Ismay’s invitation. It
was at about that time that the doctor was visiting with Mr & Mrs Frederick
Hoyt in their stateroom, C-93; ‘a steward came to the door and announced that
Mr Ismay wanted the surgeon to take dinner with him.’ The Hoyts and
O’Loughlin were seated at the same table in the Dining Saloon, and were old
friends; at least the Hoyts would not have to hear about the reason for the
doctor’s absence at dinner second-hand.1
As was his custom, just before dinner Major Arthur Peuchen headed for
his cabin, C-104, to change from his day clothes to his more formal dinner
attire. As he did so, he passed Captain Smith in one of the companionways. It
would seem that very shortly thereafter, Captain Smith made his way to the
First Class Smoking Room, where he came upon Bruce Ismay at about 7:10-
7:15 p.m.
2 Smith took the opportunity to ask Ismay for the Baltic’s iceberg
warning, which he had handed him earlier in the day. The Captain explained
that he wished to post it in the Chart Room for the officers to see.
3
Ismay
retrieved the Marconigram, handed it to Smith, and the two men parted ways
without further conversation.
4
At 7:00 p.m., the last three primary boilers, which had been heating up
throughout the day, were connected to the engines.
5 When they were hooked
in, the results were immediate, and the ship’s revolutions began to increase –
as did the speed with which she cut through the water.
At about 7:15, Lamp Trimmer Samuel Hemming arrived on the Bridge and
reported to First Officer Murdoch that all the lights had been set for the
evening. He turned to leave, but Murdoch called him back and said:
‘Hemming, when you go forward get the fore-scuttle hatch closed, there is a
glow left from that, as we are in the vicinity of ice, and I want everything dark
before the bridge.’ Hemming promptly went down onto the Forecastle and
closed the hatch himself.
6 Murdoch was keenly aware that ice was near, and
he was being particularly careful to ensure that nothing interfered with the
night vision of the lookouts and officers.
At 7:22 p.m.,
7 Harold Bride was on duty in the Marconi Room. He was
working on the accounts with the headset on when a message came in from the
Leyland liner Californian. It was a warning about ice in the area. Bride did
not stop to acknowledge the transmission, or to take it down, and instead
resumed his work. Fifteen minutes later, at 7:37 p.m.,
8 Bride heard the
Californian’s operator send the same message to the Antillian:
MSG to Captain Antillian, 6:30 p.m. in apparent ship’s time; lat. 42°
3’ N., long. 49° 9’ W. Three large bergs five miles to the southward of
us. Regards. [Captain] Lord.9
This time, Bride jotted it down on a scrap of paper, and acknowledged to the
Californian that he had received the message. Then he went up to the Bridge,
handing it to the Officer of the Watch ‘about two minutes’ after the message
had been received.10
Around that time, Second Officer Lightoller returned from dinner to
resume his watch. Murdoch remarked to him that in the half-hour that
Lightoller had been eating, the temperature had dropped another four degrees.
It was then just 39° Fahrenheit.
The furnaces of a boiler in the USS New York give an idea of what the Titanic’s furnaces looked
like.
Lamp Trimmer Samuel Hemming.
Indications of Ice?
During the day on Sunday, April 14, particularly beginning in the late afternoon, the air and
sea temperatures were steadily declining. Aboard the Titanic, there was a great deal of
discussion among both passengers and crew to the effect that the dropping temperatures
were an indication of ice in the vicinity. In the years since, this general impression has
often been repeated in books and documentaries on the subject of the voyage. But were
declining sea and air temperatures really indications of ice?
A period photograph of a small steamship sailing very close to a large iceberg.
During the two formal inquiries into the disaster, many witnesses were asked about the
matter, and time and again, their responses showed that they would not depend upon a
correlation between the two things.
At the Senate Inquiry, for example, Captain Lord of the Californian was asked about
the drop in sea and air temperatures that he encountered that night, and whether that
would indicate to him whether ice was in the vicinity. Lord replied:
I suppose it would, if you were close enough. But in the Arctic current you always
get cold water, even if there is not any ice. I always take the temperature of the
water in fog about every 5 or 10 minutes, if we are anywhere near the ice track.
But still if we got the Arctic current we would have very cold water, but if we got
within half a mile of an iceberg, I suppose it would not drop more than another
degree or two degrees.
11
The fallacy of relying on temperature indications to detect icebergs becomes clear in
Lord’s wording. If a ship was within a half-mile of an iceberg, traveling at full speed, by
the time the sample of water was read and the report made to the Officer of the Watch,
the vessel would already have covered the distance. At any rate, in good weather, the
lookouts should already have spotted the iceberg.
Thus, when he was asked how he determined the proximity of ice or icebergs, Captain
Lord replied: ‘With my own eyesight.’ He also said that in clear weather, there were really
no tests other than actually sighting a berg, with which he would determine proximity to
ice.
Titanic’s Second Officer Lightoller went even further. He said that the decline in
temperatures that night gave ‘absolutely no indication whatever’ to him that icebergs were
in the vicinity … not the slightest.’
12 More than a simple denial – which could be dismissed
as trying to give cover for the officers’ actions that night – Lightoller further offered the
very reasonable explanation that …
… though the temperature was very low, it was no indication of ice, because you
might be approaching ice and the fact of the wind coming round from the
southward would give you a warmer temperature, not necessarily fog, and
therefore you would have a warmer temperature and still be approaching ice.
13
Famed Arctic explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton was also called to give testimony, to draw
upon his experience on the matter. He was asked: ‘Is there any indication of the proximity
of ice by the fall of temperature?’ To this, he replied:
Unless the wind is blowing from a large field of ice to windward there is no
indication at all by the methods that are used now, and it is a very poor thing to go
upon, is the change of temperature. The film of fresh water that covers the sea is
so thin that by dipping in a bucket you do not pick up that thin cold water; and if the
temperature of the air is approximately the temperature of the sea there is
practically no haze; it is only when the water is warmer or the air is warmer that
the haze occurs. There are no methods that I have heard of before this that can
really give you an indication of approaching ice by ordinary temperature
methods.
14
Shackleton went on to say that only ‘if there was no wind and the temperature fell
abnormally for the time of year’ might he consider that he was approaching an area of
ice.
15
If he ‘knew what the mean temperature of that locality was for that month of the
year and there was a great variation, then I would certainly think there was some abnormal
disturbance in the ice to the North.’
16 He was pressed further on the matter:
You would not say, I suppose, that a fall in temperature was anything like a certain
indication of the presence of ice? – No, I would not at all.
Not at all? – Excepting under very definite conditions, such as a dead calm and
a sudden fall in the temperature, because if you are in colder water, and as I said
before you have not an equal temperature of the air, then you have a haze. If both
the air temperature and the water temperature are the same the effect is that the
weather is clear.
17
Shackleton finally said that ‘all those methods such as dipping up water in buckets to get
the temperature are no good’ for the purposes of detecting ice.
18
Hugh Young, a retired Captain from the Anchor Line said that he did not believe a drop
in temperature was ‘any indication’ of ice. ‘The temperature indicates a colder current and
no more … [The] change in temperature tells you you are getting into a colder current.
There may be ice and there may not be.’
19
Gerhard Apfeld, Marine Superintendent of the Red Star Line, was also asked about
such indications. He said that he had tried to detect ice through temperature on previous
occasions, and found it of absolutely no use. ‘I have gone across the banks, where I had
the temperature down to 28 or 31 bright clear weather, night and day, and absolutely no
ice. At other times I have been close to ice … Sometimes we took the temperature, and on
passing a mile and a half or two miles from a mile of icebergs, we found a temperature up
to 55 and 56 degrees.’
20
The logbook of the steamship Finland was produced, with a very interesting record.
‘At 2.50 p.m. to 4 p.m. passed nine large icebergs between latitude 41° 28’ N. and 40° 58’
N., and longitude 46° 7’ W. and 46° 42’ W. We were nine miles off the iceberg when we
had a temperature on one occasion of 42 degrees,’ the log stated. When the ship closed
the icebergs to one mile’s distance, the temperature again read 42 degrees. That same
night, the ship passed a number of other bergs when the water temperature read 56
degrees – at 12 miles from the icebergs and at one mile, the temperature was the same.
Apfeld concluded: ‘Absolutely, you cannot tell by that.’
21
So where did the correlation between a drop in air and sea temperature and the
presence of ice come from, then? Icebergs and ice fields from the Arctic were usually
carried south by the Labrador Current, which carried very cold water. Thus, an observed
drop in water temperature would correlate more with entering cold water from the
Labrador Current than it would the presence of ice.
In other words, some crew members were accustomed to noticing or hearing about a
drop in water temperature – one which was the result of entering the Labrador Current –
at about the same time that they might happen across any ice that had floated down in that
same current. Thus, some of the crew believed that there was a direct correlation between
the two. What they did not account for, when formulating that hypothesis, was that
whether ice had actually floated down on that current or not, the same drop in temperature
could be expected.
Similarly, the drop in air temperature on Sunday, April 14, was not an indication of ice.
The most precipitous decline in air temperature really began after sunset. On a clear
evening such as that one, when there was no insulating cloud cover, such a steady drop
was to be expected once the warmth of the sun had vanished from the horizon. However,
it should also be recalled that a fresh wind from the north or northwest – which had been
blowing all day – subsided at sunset, around 7:00 p.m.
22
The calm conditions and the temperature drop indicate that a high-pressure weather
system had developed south of the Grand Banks of Newfoundland, and was then moving
eastward. As the Titanic crossed the frontal boundary at around sunset, the liner entered
the highly stable but very cold arctic air behind the front, which was then apparently being
pulled down from the north or northwest.
23 As such, the drop in air – and sea –
temperature that evening was by no means hard evidence of ice in the vicinity; however, it
was certainly a reminder of its proximity.
After Murdoch and Lightoller exchanged any necessary information,
Lightoller resumed his watch, which would continue for just under two and a
half more hours. Murdoch departed the Bridge, having the same amount of
time to while away before his own watch began at 10:00 p.m. Despite the
lack of any weather-related wind after sunset, the ‘wind’ created as the ship
moved forward through the atmosphere, combined with the frigid ambient air
temperatures, would have been an unpleasant combination. Murdoch could be
certain of only one thing as he made his way from the Bridge: his watch was
going to be a bitterly cold one.
After changing for dinner, Major Peuchen left his cabin and descended the
forward First Class Grand Staircase a single deck. He emerged from the
landing into the Reception Room, and then proceeded aft to the First Class
Dining Saloon, arriving there at about 7:15 p.m.
24
First Class Stewardess Mary Sloan thought that Thomas Andrews had
been a little down when she had talked to him on Friday evening. On this
night, however, she spied him on his way to dinner, and noted that not only
was he ‘in good spirits’, but that he also ‘looked splendid’.
25
While Andrews was going down to dine in the main D Deck Saloon,
Captain Smith would not be found there that night; this was because he had
accepted an invitation to dine in the à la carte Restaurant on B Deck. While
the Restaurant was always a popular fixture during the Olympic’s first season
in service – and had proved to be similarly popular during Titanic’s maiden
voyage – on this night it was extremely well patronized. That evening played
out for those in the Restaurant while a trio of musicians played ‘in the
corridor outside’.
26
A 1911 photo of Olympic’s B Deck Restaurant, looking forward and to starboard.
The cover of an à la carte Restaurant menu.
Bruce Ismay and Dr O’Loughlin arrived in the Restaurant at 7:30 p.m. and
were given a table in the middle of the room on the starboard side.
27 During
the two men’s private conversation, Dr O’Loughlin mentioned to Ismay that
the ship had already ‘turned the corner’, making her final turn to line up with
the entrance to New York Harbor. This final major course correction had been
carried out at 5:50 p.m., nearly two hours earlier. Ismay himself was aware
that the ship had turned the corner; he also knew that the ship was nearing the
vicinity of ice, but this knowledge did little to dampen enthusiasm over what
was turning out to be a tremendous maiden voyage; indeed, the atmosphere
was festive at their table. At one point, Dr O’Loughlin ‘stood up, and raising a
glass of champagne, cried “Let us drink to the mighty Titanic”, ’ which met
with cries of approval.
28
Jacques and May Futrelle dined in the company of Henry and Irene
Harris.
29 May Futrelle, not unlike Elmer Taylor, recalled that there was
something special about the dinner that evening:
It was a brilliant crowd. Jewels flashed from the gowns of the women.
And oh, the dear women, how fondly they wore their latest Parisian
gowns. It was the first time that most of them had an opportunity to
display their newly acquired finery. The soft sweet odors of rare
flowers pervaded the atmosphere. I remember at our table was a great
bunch of American Beauty roses. The orchestra played popular music.
It was a buoyant, oh, such a jolly crowd. It was a rare gathering of
beautiful women and splendid men. There was that atmosphere of
fellowship and delightful sociability which make the Sabbath dinner
on board ship a delightful occasion.
30
First Class passenger George Widener.
First Class passenger Eleanor Widener.
First Class passenger William Thornton Carter II several years after the sinking. Young William
did not dine with his parents Sunday evening in the Restaurant.
First Class passenger Lucile Carter was described as a ‘young and beautiful Philadelphia society
woman noted for wearing extreme-fashion garments’.
First Class passenger Archibald Butt.
First Class passenger Harry Anderson.
She remembered thinking that it would have been ‘hard to find gathered in one
place a crowd which would better typify the highest type of American
manhood and womanhood … We were all filled with the joy of living.’
Members of the group remarked that they ‘might have been in a hotel ashore
for all the motion we felt. You had to look out of the portholes to realize that
you were at sea.’
Only one thing sounded a discordant note in the gaiety of the evening: the
identification of a professional gambler among their ranks. He sat at another
table in the Restaurant with a ‘cold-blooded smile’ plastered across his face
as he surveyed the passengers in the room – perhaps sizing up his next
potential victim. The men warned each other not to become involved in a
game with this person, and spread the word as best they could.
Another subject of conversation between the Futrelles and the Harrises
was more positive. As Jacques Futrelle was a writer who had some
background in the New York theater scene, and Mr Harris was a prestigious
New York theater manager, it was only natural that the conversation would
drift toward the subject at their table. Jacques Futrelle and Irene Harris took
the opportunity to engage in a discussion of some of the newest plays on the
American stage.
31 At one point, they even turned and toasted the individuals
sitting at the next table over.
32
The focus of all attention in the Restaurant that night, however, was a
rather large dinner party. This group was located in the forward starboard
corner of the Restaurant; although partially concealed in a private alcove, the
table was large enough that part of it extended beyond the privacy screen.
Bruce Ismay, who was sitting with his back to this party, recalled that he
could not see everyone in the group because some were within the alcove.
33
This special gathering had been arranged by First Class passengers George
and Eleanor Widener.
George Widener, then aged 50, was a banker and financial advisor who
lived in Elkins Park, just outside of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was the
son of Peter A. B. Widener, streetcar magnate and co-founder of the
Philadelphia Traction Company. His wife Eleanor, also 50 years of age, was
the daughter of William Elkins – his father’s business partner. Their son, 27-
year-old Harry, was an avid bibliophile; their daughter Eleanor was to be
married on June 19, and as a result of the necessary planning for that event,
she had not joined her family. The three Wideners had traveled to England on
the Mauretania in February; Mrs Widener had proceeded on her own to
France at some point during the trip. George and Harry had boarded the
Titanic at Southampton, and had been reunited with Eleanor at Cherbourg,
when she boarded the ship.
The Wideners were a very prominent family, and they had invited quite a
number of the super-elite among First Class to dine with them in the
Restaurant that evening. The meal was apparently being held in Captain
Smith’s honor.
34
In addition to the Captain, other participants included John
and Marian Thayer, William and Lucile Carter, and military advisor Major
Archibald Butt. Saloon Steward Thomas Whiteley stated that the atmosphere
at the table was gay, that Captain Smith ‘talked and joked with Mr Astor’; he
reported that while wine was served at the table, he ‘did not see the captain
drink anything; I do not think he ever indulged.’35 First Class passenger Harry
Anderson – the New York stockbroker who typically dined with Thomas
Andrews and Eleanor Cassebeer – also remembered dining at the Wideners’
party. He said that even ‘with a friend like me’ Captain Smith ‘refused to
drink that … night. When I insisted, he had a small glass of port, sipped once
and left it.’36
Captain Smith was apparently seated at the inboard side of the table, and
was visible to many individuals within the Restaurant, including Bruce
Ismay;
37 Major Butt sat more within the alcove, directly beside Mrs Marian
Thayer. The 39-year-old Mrs Thayer had never met the 46-year-old Major
Butt before, but as soon as they were introduced they bonded like old friends.
Both of them marveled over the instantaneous bond they formed, and Mrs
Thayer remembered that they never moved from each other for the remainder
of the evening.
They discussed the Major’s close friend President William Howard Taft,
as well as his personal fondness for former President Theodore Roosevelt.
Major Butt, Mrs Thayer recalled, was enjoying the trip very much; like many
passengers facing the end of a relaxing crossing, he was unsure how he was
going to dive back into the fast-paced life that awaited him ashore. Mrs
Thayer promised that on Monday, she would teach him a method of
controlling the nerves – something she had recently learned from a Swiss
doctor. Major Butt said that she was just like his own mother.
38
Forty-six-year-old George Rosenshine and his 38-year-old mistress,
Gertrude Maybelle Thorne – both of whom were traveling as Mr & Mrs
Thorne to avoid detection – were also dining in the Restaurant. ‘Mrs’ Thorne
later told fellow passenger Charles Stengel that she was at the Captain’s
dinner party, and that he ‘did not drink a drop’.
39 Mrs Widener also agreed,
stating that the Captain had not consumed ‘intoxicating liquor of any kind
whatever’ at the meal,
40
 although it was readily available at the table.
Not all of the parties in the Restaurant were so large. Adjacent to the
Wideners’ group, there was also a table for three populated by Dr & Mrs
William and Lillian Minahan, and William’s younger sister Daisy. Daisy
recalled that they had arrived in the Restaurant at about 7:15 p.m. They were
seated so close to the Wideners’ party that Daisy could actually hear snatches
of conversation from their group. After several days aboard the ship,
becoming familiar with the names and faces of her fellow passengers, she was
able to identify the Thayers, Major Butt, and Captain Smith seated at the table
with the Wideners. She was also able to pick out other noteworthy
passengers: the Duff Gordons, Edgar Meyer and his wife Leila, and others.
By that point in the crossing – with shipboard gossip always traveling
with legendary speed – many may have known of the death of Mrs Meyer’s
father, Andrew Saks, just six days before. What might not have been generally
known to other passengers that night was that on Friday, Mr Saks’ will had
been read. Mrs Jennie Saks had received a life estate and his personal effects.
However his daughter Leila, Mrs Meyer, was to receive $100,000 and a
substantial share of the estate. Leila’s one-year-old daughter, Jane, had been
designated to receive another $10,000.41
Lady Duff Gordon, seated with her husband Sir Cosmo, painted the scene
that evening very vividly:
I remember that … meal on the Titanic very well. We had a big vase
of beautiful daffodils on the table, which were as fresh as if they had
just been picked. Everybody was very gay, and at neighboring tables
people were making bets on the probable time of this record-breaking
run. Bruce Ismay … was dining with the ship’s doctor next to our
table, and I remember that several men appealed to him as to how
much longer we should be at sea. Various opinions were put forward
… Mr Ismay was most confident, and said that undoubtedly the ship
would establish a record.
Further along the room the Wideners and the Thayers (American
multi-millionaires both of them) were dining with the Captain and
others, and there was a great deal of laughter and chatter from their
table … At another table sat Colonel [John] Jacob Astor and his young
bride. They were coming back to New York after a honeymoon in
Europe, and I thought how much in love they were … They were
joined by Isador Strauss [sic, Isidor Straus], the multi-millionaire, and
his wife. These two so openly adored one another that we used to call
them ‘Darby and Joan’ on the ship.42 They told us laughingly that in
their long years of married life they had never been separated for one
day or night.
43
Although her memories of the Astors dining with the Strauses on Sunday night
must have been mistaken, since Steward William Burke testified that the
Strauses dined in the Saloon at 7:15 that evening, her recollections of the
Strauses’ devotion to one another is unquestionable. Meanwhile, at another
table located close to the Wideners’ soirée sat Lucien and Mary Smith. They
had arrived for their meal at about 7:30 p.m., or very close to the time that
Ismay and Dr O’Loughlin had arrived. The Smiths did not pay much attention
to the Wideners’ dinner party, but the group did not strike Mary Smith as
overly boisterous.
44
Nearby were Walter and Mahala Douglas. As they entered, they noticed
Sir Cosmo and Lady Lucy Duff Gordon dining close by; they also spotted Mr
Ismay at his table with Dr O’Loughlin; naturally, they were also quick to spy
the Wideners’ dinner party. The Douglases came into the Restaurant
fashionably late, arriving at about 8:00 p.m., and staying later than almost
everyone else.
45 The Futrelles and the Harrises enjoyed their meal and their
conversation so much that they lingered quite late over dinner.
46
While dinner in the First Class Restaurant was under way, it was all
business-as-usual on the Bridge. As soon as Lightoller returned from his
dinner, the time had arrived to take a set of stellar observations, in order to
help fix the ship’s position with certainty.
47 Lightoller and Pitman did this
together between about 7:30 and 7:40; Lightoller made the actual
observations, while Pitman recorded the time for them.
48 However, once the
observations had been taken and the data recorded, the fix was not complete.
Next, the raw data needed to be worked out, and that task now fell to Pitman.
For approximately twenty minutes, from about 7:40 until he went off duty at
8:00, Pitman was holed up alone in the Chart Room, buried in mathematical
computations.
49 Pitman believed that the Titanic was only making about 21½
knots at the time, and was rather disappointed that she wasn’t doing better,
since he and the other officers felt that she could reach 24 knots under
favorable circumstances. As it turned out, Titanic was making better speed
than Pitman had thought when he began his computations. They would know
for sure, however, when the 7:30 fix was worked out.
At 8:00 p.m., Fourth Officer Boxhall arrived to come on watch, and found
Pitman still in the Chart Room. Perhaps happy to be relieved of the task of
finishing all the computations, Pitman said to Boxhall: ‘Here is a bunch of
sights for you, old man. Go ahead.’ Then he left and turned in, knowing that he
would have to go back on duty at midnight.
50 Boxhall picked up where Pitman
had left off, and later recalled spending much of the watch working on the
calculations.
51 At the same time, Standby Quartermaster Robert Hichens –
who was also just coming on duty – looked at the thermometer, and noticed
that it read 31.5°.
52
This photograph shows Olympic’s First Class Dining Saloon. On the left, closest to the
photographer, is a table for ten – one of the few tables in the saloon which could accommodate
that many or more.
Saloon Steward Frederick Dent Ray.
Meanwhile, in the main Dining Saloon on D Deck, a resplendent display
of the Gilded Era was playing out. Elmer Taylor recalled:
When we again assembled at table in a beautifully lighted dining
room, we started a sort of mutual admiration competition in which the
ladies always win. A smooth sea, clear skies and low temperature
outside gave women passengers an opportunity to get out their latest
Parisian gowns, their most brilliant jewels, transformation (a hairdo
of the time), facial treatments, etc. It was a brilliant assembly –
contentment and happiness prevailed. Conversations were perhaps
animated by a social cocktail or two.53
Philipp Mock had thought that the scene at dinner every night of the crossing
was a very interesting one. On Sunday evening, however, he felt that the
women seemed ‘more vivacious than usual and the men merry and
contented.’54
Eleanor Cassebeer made a splendid entrance to the Dining Saloon. Having
endured some teasing from her shipboard friend Benjamin Foreman over her
rather severe looking suits, she had decided to put on a truly stunning gown
that evening. The dress had white lace and she put an ermine stoll over the
whole ensemble. When she showed up and arrived at the Purser’s table,
which she shared with Dr O’Loughlin and Thomas Andrews, a chipper
Andrews let out a friendly little cheer for her choice. Then he leaned over to
her and said: ‘Now that’s the way a lady should look!’
55
On this night, their table was a little emptier than usual, as Dr O’Loughlin
was dining in the Restaurant with Bruce Ismay, and Harry Anderson was also
in the Restaurant at the Wideners’ dinner party. Two of Andrews’ other table
companions, 31-year-old Albert Dick and his 17-year-old wife Vera,
56 were
from Calgary, Alberta. They had been married on May 31, 1911 – the very
day that Titanic had been launched in Belfast. Over the course of the voyage,
the couple had grown attached to Andrews for his character and his pride in
the ship. They noted that ‘upon every occasion, and especially at dinner on
Sunday evening, he talked almost constantly about his wife, little girl, mother
and family, as well as of his home’.
57
Saloon Steward Frederick Dent Ray was busy tending to tables on the
starboard side of the First Class Saloon. His section was usually occupied by
Major Archibald Butt, Clarence Moore, Francis Millet, and Mr and Mrs
Walter and Virginia Clark, but on this night, Ray recalled that it was emptier
than usual. Mr Moore and Mr Millet dined between 7:30 and 8:15, but Major
Butt was not down because he was in the Restaurant. Mr & Mrs Clark were
also absent from dinner that evening, and it is possible that they, as well,
dined in the Restaurant.
58
Seventeen-year-old Jack Thayer, son of John B. Thayer and Marian
Thayer, was eating in the Saloon that evening; his parents had been invited to
the Wideners’ special dinner function in the Restaurant on B Deck, but the
invitation had apparently not included him. As a result, he was eating alone at
his family’s regular table.
59
Mrs Martha Stephenson was traveling without her husband. However, her
sister, Miss Elizabeth Eustis, was with her. The two ladies dined together, and
remembered that the dinner that night was quite delicious. Their Saloon
Steward even gave them a number of souvenir menus.
60
Helen Ostby and her father sat at another table and discussed the reception
that would be awaiting Titanic and her passengers in New York. Their
friends, Mr & Mrs Frank and Anna Warren, had spent much time with the
Ostbys that Sunday. Mrs Warren remembered that the ‘general impression
prevailing aboard the vessel’ was that the ship’s speed was going to be
increased again on Monday, and that the New York arrival would take place
sometime on Tuesday afternoon, rather than on Wednesday morning.
61
A set of pages from a period White Star Line songbook, showing numbers 278-340. No. 281 is
‘Alexander’s Ragtime Band’.
Major Arthur Peuchen dined in the Saloon, as well. He was at the same
table as his friends Harry Markland Molson, and Hudson and Bess Allison.
For a brief time the group was even joined by little Helen Lorraine Allison.
Peuchen recalled that the dinner was ‘exceptionally good’, and that it ‘seemed
to be a better bill of fare than usual’, even though all of them were of a high
caliber.
62
The quality of the food at dinner didn’t matter very much to 22-year-old
Marguerite Frölicher-Stehli. Despite the noteworthy stability of the Titanic,
she and her mother Margaretha had been horrifically seasick ever since
Thursday evening. Finally, on Sunday evening, she had begun to feel better.
Dressing in a warm wool suit and sweater, she managed to make it out of her
stateroom and down to the Dining Saloon for the first time in days. After
eating some dinner, however, she ‘immediately became nauseous again’, and
was forced to return to her room.
63
Colonel Archibald Gracie was in the Dining Saloon, as well, but he was
having a better time than Miss Frölicher-Stehli. Gracie was seated with his
usual companions, James Clinch Smith and Edward Kent. As the dinner itself
began to wind down, many of the passengers started to drift out into the First
Class Reception Room, where they sat for coffee and the usual evening
concert by the five-man main orchestra led by Wallace Hartley. Gracie and his
companions were among those who began to make their way to the Reception
Room. As they did so, they marveled at the sheer number of beautiful women
who were present that evening, and made remark to each other on the point.
Nearby, the Countess of Rothes had dined with her cousin, Miss Gladys
Cherry. The pair felt ‘very gay’, obviously swept up in the nearly euphoric
atmosphere that evening.
64
At 8:00 p.m., a number of diners were still socializing in the Saloon when
Wallace Hartley and his four fellow bandsmen assembled in the Reception
Room and began to play their nightly after-dinner concert. Martha Stephenson
and her sister Elizabeth Eustis moved from the Saloon to the Reception Room,
listening to the excellent selections and noting a number of friends sitting
nearby.
65 Major Peuchen and his dining companions also drifted from the
Saloon to the Reception Room to enjoy the music of the orchestra.
66 Helen
Ostby and her father Engelhart Ostby stayed for the concert, as well. Elizabeth
Shute recalled that it was a …
… beautiful concert, just as one might sit in one’s own home. With
never a realizing sense of being on the ocean, why should not one
forget? – no motion, no noise of machinery, nothing suggestive of a
ship. Happy, laughing men and women constantly passing up and down
those broad, strong staircases, and the music went on and the ship
went on …67
Dinner in the Third Class Dining Saloon had gone just as well as – albeit
somewhat less glamorously than – the dinner in First and Second Classes.
Eighteen-year-old Emily Badman was on her way from Clevedon, England, to
Skaneateles, New York, where her sister, Mrs Ernest Arthur, and her husband
lived. During the course of the voyage, Emily had befriended 26-year-old
Sarah Roth, who was on her way to New York for her wedding. Over dinner
that night, she commented to her friend, a man from Kent, England, that she
wished she could see such a big boat from a small one.
68
After dinner in Second Class, at 8:30 p.m., the time arrived for Reverend
Ernest Carter’s ‘hymn sing-song’. Despite the fact that the event had only been
planned that afternoon, the gathering was quite robust – Lawrence Beesley
thought there were about a hundred passengers present.
69 Nineteen-year-old
Lillian Bentham, an American whose family lived in Rochester, New York,
was traveling with a group of ten other individuals returning from a visit to
Europe. She and some of her friends were among the attendees for this
event.
70 So was Sidney Collett, who had helped Carter to invite people to the
gathering. He was accompanied by his family friend and charge, Marion
Wright. Marion had ‘playfully suggested’ to Collett that she should invite a
friend – apparently referring to Kate Buss – so that Collett ‘might not make
love to her’.
71
Douglas Norman, a young Scottish engineer immigrating to the United
States, sat at the Steinway upright, ready to lead the group with the
appropriate music. Carter announced each hymn, in turn, and gave a little
background behind its composition before it was sung. The group sang hymns
such as ‘Now the Day is Over’. Marion Wright sang a number of solos, such
as ‘There Is A Green Hill Far Away’, and ‘Lead, Kindly Light’. As she sang
‘For Those in Peril on the Sea’, the others joined in what Beesley thought was
a ‘hushed tone’.
In the Marconi Room, Bride and Phillips had been engaged in
conversation for ‘a long while’.
72 Wireless traffic had already been ‘very
heavy’ all day, as Bride recalled.
73 Both men had suffered a very short night’s
sleep on the preceding night, with the Marconi set acting up so badly. Phillips
seemed very tired. Bride offered to relieve him at midnight rather than 2:00
a.m., to help the Senior Operator get caught up on his rest. Phillips agreed,
and Bride turned in between 8:30 and 9:00 p.m. Just as he was headed off to
catch a few hours of sleep, the Titanic came within range of the wireless
station at Cape Race, Newfoundland.74 Bride could ‘hear the make and break
of his key’ as Phillips sent ‘preliminaries’ to the operator at Cape Race.
75
These preliminaries consisted of their ‘distance and bearing from Cape Race,
and the number of messages he had for Cape Race’.
76
While Bride tried to drift off to sleep, the night wore on and the exquisite
dinner in the First Class Restaurant began to wind down. When Bruce Ismay
had finished his meal with Dr O’Loughlin there, at about 8:00–8:15 p.m., he
got up to leave. As he did so, he noticed that the Captain was still seated at
the Wideners’ table. After departing the Restaurant, Ismay moved forward
into the Restaurant Reception Room and socialized with other passengers.
77
Lucien and Mary Smith departed the Restaurant for the adjacent Café
Parisien at about 8:45 p.m. To reach this room they would have moved
forward into the corridor that led to the Restaurant Reception Room, and then
passed through the doors to starboard that gave entrance to the Café. As Mr &
Mrs Smith left, they saw that Captain Smith and the rest of the Wideners’
group were all still at their table in the Restaurant.
78 The Captain smoked two
cigars that evening,
79 and he also enjoyed a cup of after-dinner coffee. At
almost the same time that the Smiths left for the Café, Daisy Minahan was
mentally preparing herself to turn in. Her brother had suggested that she do so
just a few minutes before, but she wanted to hear the orchestra play one more
piece before calling it a night. As they listened to that next selection, she saw
Captain Smith finally rise from the Wideners’ table, bid the ladies good night,
and depart.
80
Captain Smith headed directly to the Bridge, arriving there at 8:55 p.m.
As he knew that the ship was in the vicinity of ice, he was without a doubt
keen to check in on conditions. Fourth Officer Boxhall was then in the Chart
Room, which was accessed by a door on the aft bulkhead of the Wheelhouse.
Apparently the door was left at least partially open at the time, because
Boxhall remembered seeing Captain Smith come onto the Bridge.
The Captain found Second Officer Lightoller maintaining watch, and the
two men greeted each other with a typical, ‘Good evening’.
81 Smith took the
opportunity to confer with Lightoller about the weather. He remarked that it
was quite cold.
‘Yes, it is very cold, Sir,’ Lightoller replied. ‘In fact it is only one degree
above freezing. I have sent word down to the Carpenter and rung up the
Engine Room and told them that it is freezing, or will be during the night.’
‘There is not much wind,’ Smith noted.
‘No, it is a flat calm as a matter of fact.’
‘A flat calm,’ Smith repeated.
Lightoller said: ‘Yes, quite flat, there is no wind.’ The Second Officer
then remarked that it was rather a pity that the breeze hadn’t kept up with them
while they were going through the vicinity of the ice. This was because any
wind-driven waves would have shown a ‘dog’s bone of foam’ as they broke
along a berg’s base, making an iceberg infinitely more detectable in the dark.
The Captain was now getting his night vision pretty well, and said: ‘Yes,
it seems quite clear.’ Lightoller agreed. As time passed, they unhurriedly
discussed whether they would be able to see any icebergs lurking in the area
‘at a good distance’. They agreed that they would certainly be able to do so.
Captain Smith added that if it became ‘in a slight degree hazy there would be
no doubt we should have to go very slowly.’82
In all, their conversation lasted between twenty and twenty-five minutes.
At some point, apparently during this conversation, Boxhall emerged from the
Chart Room to report on his progress with the calculations on the fix. While
there, he saw that the Captain was still present. As the conversation between
Lightoller and Captain Smith wound down, at about 9:25 p.m., Smith said: ‘If
it becomes at all doubtful let me know at once; I will be just inside.’ Then he
left the Bridge.
83 Boxhall remembered that the Captain paid a visit to the
Chart Room, passing through the Wheelhouse, as well; this may have been
right after the Captain had departed Lightoller’s direct company on the
Bridge.
84
It was now about 9:30, and Lightoller had roughly a half-hour left in his
watch. He decided to take one further precaution. He asked Sixth Officer
Moody to use the telephone to call up the lookouts in the Crow’s Nest; he
wanted to have them ‘keep a sharp lookout for ice, particularly small ice and
growlers’, and to ‘pass that word on until daylight’, as each successive shift
took its turn on duty.
85
Moody dutifully went to the phone connecting to the Crow’s Nest which
was located within the Wheelhouse. Once Moody was connected to the
lookouts, Lightoller overheard him order them: ‘Keep a sharp look out for ice,
particularly small ice.’ Then he hung up.
Lightoller noted that Moody’s order differed somewhat from the wording
that he had specified, as the Sixth Officer had not mentioned ‘growlers.’
Lightoller thought the detail was important enough to have Moody call the
lookouts again, and to clarify that they should keep a sharp lookout for ‘small
ice and growlers’. Moody carried the order out, ringing the Crow’s Nest a
second time, and conveying the order correctly this time.
86
The lookouts didn’t need much reminding, however, as they already had
the feeling that ice was really close. About a half-hour before the phone had
rung with Lightoller’s order, Lookout Archie Jewell had turned to Lookout
George Symons and said: ‘It is very cold here.’
Symons had agreed, and replied: ‘Yes; by the smell of it there is ice
about.’
Jewell curiously asked what Symons meant.
Symons had responded: ‘As a rule you can smell the ice before you get to
it.’87
Meanwhile, Second Officer Lightoller decided to take up a position on the
Bridge that gave him the most distinct visibility ahead – ‘a view which
cleared the back stays and so on’ – and he remained there for the remainder of
his watch. In his hand he held a set of the binoculars which were left on the
Bridge at all times for the use of any officers; occasionally he would raise
them to his eyes to get a detailed look at something of interest.
88
Shortly after 9:30, Lightoller asked Standby Quartermaster Hichens to find
the deck engineer and have him bring the key that would open up the heaters in
the corridor of the Officers’ Quarters, the Wheelhouse, and the Chart Room,
as the cold was so intense. Hichens had time to do this before 9:45 p.m.,
because he was back on the Bridge by that point in time to give Murdoch the
customary 15-minute warning that his watch would soon begin.
89
 Hichens also
took readings from the thermometer and the barometer, as well as a reading of
the water temperature, and recorded these in the ship’s log.
After dinner, Thomas Andrews made his way aft ‘to thank the baker for
some special bread he had made for him’. Then he returned to his stateroom,
A-36, to do some more work. Steward Etches, who cared for Andrews’ room,
recalled that the cabin was ‘full of charts’, and that Andrews ‘would sit for
hours, making calculations and drawings for future use’. Throughout the
voyage, Andrews had also been hard at work outside his stateroom. With the
other members of the Guarantee Group, ‘he went about the boat all day long,
putting things right and making note of every suggestion of an imperfection.’
This night was to be no different. There were things to do, and Andrews was
not a man to leave work unfinished.90
Young Jack Thayer had been eating alone in the Dining Saloon that night,
as his parents had been guests of the Wideners’ group in the Restaurant. When
he finished his meal, Jack had a cup of coffee. While he was sipping at it, ‘a
man about twenty-eight or thirty years of age drew up, and introduced himself
as Milton C. Long, son of Judge Charles M. Long, of Springfield,
Massachusetts. He was traveling alone.’ The two fell into conversation for
about an hour.
91
One Third Class passenger who might have been expected to feel festive
that Sunday evening was Anna Sjöblom; the young lady from Munsala,
Finland, was turning 18 that day. Although traveling with a rather sizeable
group from Finland, she felt ‘homesick alone’, and was ‘surrounded by
immigrants of every nationality’. She did recall that ‘there were dancing and
festivities’ among her fellow Third Class passengers during the day and in the
evening. However, she did not feel much like participating, and retired
early.
92
Overall, however, things in Third Class were quite cheery. With a general
optimism for better lives in America among the steerage passengers, spirits
were high, and the mood was festive. There was an impromptu party in the
Third Class General Room that evening, with a lot of music and dancing.
Eugene Daly moved about the room, playing lively tunes on his uilleann pipes.
Katie Gilnagh later said that ‘the trip over was a delight’, and that ‘the girls
all loved’ Daly’s pipe playing. She recalled seeing a rat scurry across the
room during the party, with the boys giving chase, and the girls squealing with
excitement.
93
While most Third Class passengers thoroughly enjoyed their evening,
Second Class passenger Imanita Shelley and her mother were still not entirely
happy with their trip. During the evening, they noted the sharp drop in
temperature, and guessed that this meant they were near ice. By 9:00 p.m., the
lack of working heat in their cabin had allowed ice to form thickly outside of
their windows. ‘It was so very cold’, Mrs Shelley recalled. Half-frozen, the
pair retired early.
94
At about the same time – 9:00 p.m. – First Class passengers Mr & Mrs
Hoyt saw their friend Dr O’Loughlin ‘making his rounds and visiting patients
who were ill’. Although they weren’t half-frozen, like Mrs Shelley and her
mother, the Hoyts decided to turn in early.
95
Sir Cosmo and Lady Duff Gordon had dined in the Restaurant on B Deck.
Lady Duff Gordon recalled that once they had finished their dinner …
… we went down into the lounge [Reception Room], where we met
Mr and Mrs Edgar Meyer. I had my little autograph book with me, and
got them to write in it. It was one of the ‘Confession’ books, which
were so popular just then. Mr Meyer filled in his ‘likes’,
‘abominations’, etc., and then came to the column marked
‘madnesses’. He laughed as he said: ‘I have only one – to live’, and
wrote it down.
After this, the Duff Gordons went up to their staterooms on A Deck. Sir
Cosmo went to his room, and turned in early. Lady Duff Gordon and her
secretary, Miss Francatelli, ‘sat chatting by the [electric] stove’ for a while
before turning in.
96
As the clock advanced from 9:00 toward 10:00 p.m., things began to wind
down in many of the areas of First Class. It was at about nine o’clock that
Major Peuchen finally parted from his dinner companions and headed up to
the First Class Smoking Room aft on the Promenade Deck. As time passed, he
chatted and smoked with several friends.
97
The Countess of Rothes and her cousin, Gladys Cherry, were enjoying
their evening greatly as they listened to the concert wrap up in the First Class
Reception Room. Typically, these concerts wrapped up at about 9:15 p.m., so
that the band could go down to Second Class and play in the after C Deck
Entrance foyer for an hour, and it seems that the concert that night ended at the
same time as usual. The Countess recalled that the orchestra played a
selection from ‘The Tales of Hoffman’, by Jacques Offenbach, for the ‘last
piece of after-dinner music’ that night. Although she did not specify exactly
which piece was played, she most likely referred to ‘Barcarolle’, which was
the most famous selection from that opera, and which appeared in the White
Star Line songbook.
98
This 1920s publicity view shows people enjoying the comforts of the Olympic’s First Class
Reception Room after dinner. The scene would have been nearly identical aboard Titanic after
dinner on Sunday night.
However, even with the concert’s conclusion and the departure of the
band, many passengers remained in the Reception Room, talking and enjoying
each other’s company. A few began to prepare to turn in, but still others
drifted off to other public rooms for further activities.
At about 9:30, Martha Stephenson and her sister, Elizabeth Eustis, left the
Reception Room and ascended to the Lounge on the Promenade Deck. The
fireplace against the aft wall was throwing off a welcome wash of warmth, a
stark contrast to the chilly decks outside. For about a half hour, she read the
Library copy of Sir Ernest Shackleton’s The Heart of the Antarctic, looking at
all the pictures of icebergs that were contained therein.
99
Colonel Gracie was used to spending a lot of time in the Smoking Room
with others from among First Class every evening. Usually he stayed up until
around midnight. During those nights of the voyage, he would hear …
… Major Archie Butt, President Taft’s Military Aid, discussing
politics; Clarence Moore, of Washington, D. C., relating his
venturesome trip some years ago through West Virginia woods and
mountains, helping a newspaper reporter in obtaining an interview
with the outlaw, Captain Anse Hatfield; Frank D. Millet, the wellknown artist, planning a journey west; Arthur Ryerson and others.
During these evenings I also conversed with Mr John B. Thayer,
Second Vice-President of the Pennsylvania Railroad, and with Mr
George D. Widener, a son of the Philadelphia street-car magnate, Mr
P. A. B. Widener.
However, Gracie’s ‘stay in the smoking-room on this particular evening for
the first time was short’; he returned to his cabin, C-51, early – probably by
around 9:30 p.m. He asked his Cabin Steward, Charles Cullen, to awaken him
early enough the next morning to prepare for another round of physical
exercises.
100
At 9:52 p.m., there was another noteworthy message received in the
wireless room. It originated with the Mesaba, and it was addressed
specifically to Titanic and all east-bound ships:
Ice report. In lat. 42 N. to 41.25 N. long. 49 W. to long. 50.30 W. Saw
much heavy pack ice, and great number large icebergs, also field ice.
Weather good, clear.
101
Although the message concerned navigation, it was not preceded by the letters
MSG, and was not attributed personally to the Mesaba’s Captain. Senior
Operator Phillips heard the message, and replied: ‘Received, thanks.’ At the
time, however, he was busy working away at a backlog of messages, and
Bride was taking a nap before coming on duty. Perhaps because the message
did not have the correct prefix, Phillips never made sure that this message
was taken to the Bridge.
Down in Boiler Room No. 4, Trimmer George Cavell was on the 8:00–
12:00 watch. He happened to look at the steam-pressure gauge, which was
right alongside one of the boilers, and noticed that it was reading 225 lbs. The
ship’s steam system was ordinarily designed to work at a pressure of 215 lbs.
The liner’s steam-generating plant was being fired hard.102
Up on the Bridge, it had taken Boxhall some time to work out the
calculations from the stellar observation taken between 7:30 and 7:40 p.m. At
around 10:00 p.m., Boxhall and Captain Smith went to the Chart Room
together. Boxhall had given the Commander the ship’s position at the time of
the observation, as he had calculated it. He stood close by while the Captain
took the result and marked that position on the chart directly.
103
At 10:00 p.m., the officers’ and lookouts’ watch changed.104 First Officer
Murdoch arrived on the Bridge to relieve his old friend Lightoller as Officer
of the Watch. The two officers chatted for a few minutes, and Lightoller
conveyed to Murdoch ‘items of interest’ such as the ship’s course and speed,
as well as a number of other typical tidbits. As their conversation continued,
in the Wheelhouse, standby Quartermaster Hichens took the wheel from
Quartermaster Olliver. Olliver told him that their course was North 71 West at
the time, and Hichens repeated the course back to Olliver. Then Olliver went
out to the officers on the Bridge, and one of them repeated the course back;
this typical watch-change procedure was repeated until everyone was sure to
be on the same page regarding the ship’s course.
105 Hichens remembered that
although the temperature was only 31.5° when he took the air temperature at
8:00 p.m., by 10:00, it had fallen further still during the two hours since
then.
106
At about ‘half a minute to ten’, Hichens called up Quartermaster George
Rowe, who was then on the Stern Docking Bridge. From him, Hichens
obtained a reading off the Cherub log, which trailed in the sea and gave a
reading on the ship’s speed. It read 45 nautical miles traveled since 8:00 p.m.,
meaning that the ship had traveled at a speed through the water of 22.5 knots
in those same two hours.
107 Considering the fact that she was operating on
only her twenty-five main boilers, and that none of the five auxiliary boilers
had yet been lighted, this was a very good showing. Although the current was
slowing her forward progress somewhat, her average ‘speed made good’ was
still over 22 knots.
Meanwhile, Lightoller was conveying information to Murdoch about the
ice field that they were approaching. At the time, Lightoller expected that they
would be in the vicinity of the ice ‘somewhere about 11 o’clock’. He
mentioned his recent conversation with the Captain. They remarked on how
calm and clear the weather was; indeed, it seemed that they could see an
extraordinary distance on this night. They could actually see the stars setting
right down to the horizon.
108 Then Lightoller wished Murdoch ‘joy of his
Watch’ and started off on his rounds.
109
Making the rounds may have sounded simple, but Lightoller recalled that
it meant covering ‘a mile or more of deck, not including a few hundred feet of
ladders, staircases, etc.’ Since the ship was on her first voyage, it was
especially important to make sure that ‘everyone was on the top line’. He
covered several decks right fore and aft; he also went down to Scotland Road,
made his way to the stern, and eventually emerged on the after decks. He
made sure that Quartermaster Rowe, was at his station on the Stern Docking
Bridge. By that point, Lightoller was thoroughly chilled. He remembered that
the ‘temperature on deck felt somewhere around the zero of Canada.’ He was
quick to make his way back to his own cabin, and crawled gratefully
underneath the blankets for a few hours’ rest before the vicious cycle started
all over again on Monday morning.
110
At 10:00 p.m., Quartermaster Rowe was almost half-way through his four
hour and twenty-three minute watch on the Stern Docking Bridge. He had
already been on duty for two previous watches that day – between 8:00 a.m.
and 12:00 noon, and then a spell at the ship’s wheel between 4:00 and 6:00
p.m. He was doubtless looking forward to turning in for the night when his
relief showed up. Out there on the Stern Docking Bridge, however, there was
plenty of quiet time to think.
111
At about the same time, Charles Stengel and his wife Annie were headed
to their cabin, C-116. Mr Stengel was ‘familiar with engines in the
manufacturing business’, as his company had ‘bought a great many engines in
28 or 29 years, and we generally take the speed of the engine. We want to buy
an engine that will run a certain speed and do a certain amount of work.’ So it
was almost second nature to him to notice that the ship’s engines were
‘running faster than at any other time during the trip’, and he commented on the
point to his wife.
112
Isaac Frauenthal recalled that he talked with his brother Henry and his
sister-in-law for a while after dinner, and that all three had ‘retired about the
same time.’ Isaac ‘undressed, slipped into pajamas and lay down to read a
book until I got sleepy.’ He was still awake as midnight approached.113
Elmer and Juliet Taylor were still spending time with their dinner
companions. Elmer Taylor said that shortly …
… after 10:00 P.M., our party seemed to have had sufficient for the
day. We arose from the table in the Reception Room, went through our
[stereotyped] form of adieus, parted and proceeded to our cabin on
‘D’ Deck.
Our cabin was rather cold, so we turned on an electric heater and
prepared for a good night’s rest.
114
Lucy Dyer-Edwards – better known as the Countess of Rothes – and her
cousin Gladys Cherry began to tire as the evening progressed. They finally
decided to call it a night, and proceeded to their cabin, C-77 – which was an
outboard cabin located on the starboard side, aft of the Nos 1 and 2 Boiler
Casing – at 10:00 p.m.
115
When the Futrelles and the Harrises had finished their dinner, someone in
the group suggested that they go up on deck for a breath of fresh air. However,
some who had already gone up returned saying that it had become freezing
cold outside. Mrs Futrelle stalwartly went up and poked her nose out of the
door to feel the cold for herself. She remembered that it felt like there was a
‘death chill’ in the air. She shivered involuntarily, happened to hear a nearby
group of passengers casually discussing ‘icebergs’, and then she darted back
to the inviting warmth inside. Unfortunately, her husband Jacques had been
taken with a headache shortly after dinner. While May very much wanted to sit
up for a while, she felt that she should go back to their cabin with her
husband, try to soothe his discomfort, and help him to fall asleep.116
At ten o’clock, the lights in the Third Class public rooms were
extinguished. This was done to encourage the passengers to retire, and it
effectively ended the party that so many had enjoyed that evening. Eugene
Daly and his fellow Third Class passengers began turning in for the night.
Assistant Saloon Steward Walter Nichols’ shift ended at 8:00 p.m. that
evening. He ‘fooled around for a couple of hours’, and then at about 10:00
p.m. went to his bunk to turn in. His berth was located amidships on the port
side of E Deck, just off the main crew thoroughfare, which was known as
Scotland Road to the crew, and Park Lane to the officers.
117
In the Second Class Dining Saloon, the hymn singing had gone on for a bit
longer than anticipated. Susan Webber said that the ‘group did not break up at
the appointed hour, but sang until 10 o’clock.’118
Sidney Collett recalled that the last hymn that they sang was ‘Stand Up,
Stand Up For Jesus’, and it was sung without piano accompaniment since they
did not have the music for that particular piece.
119 Lawrence Beesley recalled
that by that point, the Saloon Stewards were standing around, waiting to serve
light refreshments before finishing out their long day of work and turning in.
Noticing this …
… Mr Carter brought the evening to a close by a few words of thanks
to the purser for the use of the saloon, a short sketch of the happiness
and safety of the voyage hitherto, the great confidence all felt on board
this great liner with her steadiness and her size, and the happy outlook
of landing in a few hours in New York at the close of a delightful
voyage.
Collett was sure, as the meeting closed, ‘that everybody enjoyed it’. Beesley
stayed behind, talking with Mr & Mrs Carter over a cup of coffee for a little
while. Then he finally bid them good night, returning to his cabin ‘at about
quarter to eleven’.
Susan Webber also stayed for the refreshments that ‘were served in the
dining room’. Finally ‘late that evening’, she broke away from the others and
returned to her stateroom to go to bed.120
Martha Stephenson and her sister Elizabeth Eustis sat in the Lounge on A
Deck for a while. Martha had enjoyed looking at the pictures of icebergs in
Sir Ernest Shackleton’s book, The Heart of the Antarctic. At 10:00, the two
women had started down for bed in their cabin, D-20, forward of the
Reception Room on the port side. On the way, however, they had encountered
John and Marian Thayer, and ended up chatting for about three-quarters of an
hour, reminiscing over what a wonderful trip they were all having. Finally, the
two ladies retired, lamenting that they only had two more nights before
arriving in New York.
121
It seems that the same thought was beginning to intrude upon the minds of
many of the passengers that night. There came a point on any happy crossing
when passengers began to realize that there was less of the trip ahead than
there was behind; that all too soon, the voyage would come to an end. What
none of the passengers could have imagined as they drifted off to their
staterooms, however, was just how close the end of their crossing really was
– and what a bizarre ending it would have.
Walter and Mahala Douglas had arrived late in the First Class Restaurant
aft on B Deck, and they were also among the very last to leave. They stayed
until after the remnants of the Widener dinner party had broken up. Then they
decided to head off for bed themselves, and made their way toward their
stateroom, C-86. To get there, they went forward to the Restaurant Reception
Room and then headed a single flight down via the aft First Class Grand
Staircase. As they went down the stairs, they both noticed that the vibration of
the ship’s engines was ‘very noticeable’. They remarked to each other ‘that
the boat was going faster than she ever had.’122 Arriving on C Deck, they
moved to the port corridor and walked forward a short distance before
arriving at their stateroom door.
Mrs Mary Smith stayed in the Café Parisien for about an hour and three
quarters after leaving the Restaurant at 8:45 p.m. While she had been in the
Café, her husband stood just outside in the Restaurant Reception Room,
chatting with some friends. Finally, Mrs Smith rose and asked her husband
what time it was. He told her it was 10:30, and she then headed off to bed. As
she passed through the Restaurant Reception Room she noticed that Bruce
Ismay was still chatting with fellow passengers. Ismay did not remain for
long, however; he later recalled that he headed off to his cabin and turned in
at about 10:30 p.m., as well.
123
After the concert in the D Deck Reception Room, some gentlemen moved
along to the First Class Smoking Room for some after-dinner conversation, a
brandy or a nightcap, and perhaps to play a hand or two of cards. The Café
Parisien was quite chilly, and only the stoutest and most determined of patrons
stayed there; others, less able to withstand the cold, eventually drifted off in
search of warmer surroundings.
Thirty-six-year-old William E. Carter was traveling with his 36-year-old
wife Lucile, and their two children, 13-year-old Lucile and 11-year-old
William, Jr. William had broken off from his family after dinner, and spent the
next ‘several hours’ in the Smoking Room. He remembered being joined by
‘Major Archie Butt, Colonel Gracie, Harry Widener, Mr Thayer, Clarence
Moore of Washington, William Dulles and several other men.’124
Even though Gracie had left the group early, there were still many others
who were willing to stay up late on this wonderful night – another drink,
another hand of cards, another cigar, and another story with fellow travelers.
Major Arthur Peuchen, for example, was thoroughly enjoying himself there.
He was chatting with a pair of fellow Canadians, 36-year-old Thomson
Beattie and 46-year-old Thomas McCaffry.
125
Around 10:40 p.m. or so, First Class passengers George Rheims and
Joseph Loring were in the First Class Smoking Room, having a spirited
discussion. They were trying to figure out what the ship’s run would be the
following day, since there was a pool on it. A steward, possibly Chief
Steward Andrew Latimer, came up to them and said that they ‘might figure on
a bigger run’.
They asked why, and the steward said: ‘Because we are making faster
speed than we were yesterday.’ Loring was skeptical, and asked him what he
knew about it. The steward said that he had gotten that ‘from the engine room’.
Loring scoffed at this, so the steward said: ‘Gentlemen, come out and see
for yourself,’ and led them out into the hallway. He pointed out that the
vibration from the engines was greater then than it had been thus far during the
voyage.
This convinced Loring, and he said: ‘I never noticed this vibration before;
we are evidently making very good speed.’126
Before going to bed, Jack Thayer decided to go up for a turn on the deck.
He put on an overcoat, and made a few rounds. He remembered:
It had become very much colder. It was a brilliant, starry night. There
was no moon and I have never seen the stars shine brighter; they
appeared to stand right out of the sky, sparkling like cut diamonds … I
have spent much time on the ocean, yet I have never seen the sea
smoother than it was that night; it was like a mill-pond, and just as
innocent looking, as the great ship quietly rippled through it. I went
onto the boat deck – it was deserted and lonely. The wind whistled
through the stays, and blackish smoke poured out of the three forward
funnels … It was the kind of a night that made one feel glad to be
alive.
127
At 11:07 p.m.
128 Jack Phillips was still working in the Marconi office when a
deafening message burst into his headset:
MGY [Titanic] [this is] MWL [Californian]. I say, old man. We are
stopped and surrounded by ice.
129
It was from Wireless Operator Cyril Evans on the Leyland liner Californian.
As with the ice warning from the Mesaba an hour and a quarter earlier, this
message was not a Master Service Message. Beyond that, the wording of the
transmission came off as informal, perhaps even chatty. The extreme loudness
of the message was due to the proximity of the Californian.
An annoyed and exhausted Phillips replied: ‘Shut up, shut up, I am busy. I
am working Cape Race.’ The brush-off succeeded, and discouraged Evans on
the Californian from trying again. Phillips failed to relay this – the seventh
and last known ice warning to be received that day – to the Bridge.
A 1923 photo of First Class passenger William Sloper.
First Class passenger Dorothy Gibson c. 1921.
Able Bodied Seaman Thomas Jones (left) and Quartermaster George Thomas Rowe (right).
First Class Stewardess Violet Jessop had found the maiden voyage of the
Titanic enjoyable so far – apparently quite a bit less stressful than the maiden
voyage of the Olympic the year before. Once she had gone off duty, she
stepped out on deck, a daily habit before bed, and she found that it had grown
‘penetratingly cold’ outside. She also noticed little ‘wisps of mist like tiny
fairies’, which wafted in from the sea and left her face feeling clammy.
Quartermaster George Rowe, then on duty on the Stern Docking Bridge,
had also noticed this odd phenomenon. He recalled that they first appeared at
about 11:00 p.m. Rowe and other seamen referred to these as ‘whiskers
‘round the light’, because as they would get caught in the glow of any of the
deck lights, they would give off a prism of color.
130
Jessop shivered, and then retreated to the warmth of her upper berth,
where she engaged herself in reading some English magazines that the Library
Steward had brought by for her. Just then, she remembered a special prayer
translation which an old Irish woman had given her; she had promised to read
it, but had not yet found the time during the voyage. First she gave it to her
cabin-mate, who was still awake in the lower berth. Then she began to read
the prayer, as well, comfortably drowsy after a long day of work.
131
At around 11:20, or perhaps just a little after, Major Arthur Peuchen
decided to turn in; he bade good night to his acquaintances, and then started
off in the direction of his stateroom, C-104, by the forward Grand
Staircase.
132
Margaret Swift had been enjoying the wonderful, ‘successful’ voyage. She
and her traveling companions, Dr Alice Leader, and Frederick and Marion
Kenyon, had ‘sat late at dinner’ that night, Mrs Swift recalled. Finally, she
had turned in at about 11:00 p.m. Her cabin-mate, Mrs Leader, ‘came in at
about 11:30, I should think, and I was still awake’. The pair ‘chatted for about
fifteen minutes’.
133
Fifty-year-old First Class passenger William B. Silvey was traveling with
his wife, 39-year-old Alice. They were returning home to Duluth, Minnesota,
and Mrs Silvey recalled that the night ‘was cold and extremely clear and
bright’. The couple retired to their starboard side cabin amidship, E-44, quite
late, but they did not go to sleep immediately.
134
Up in the Lounge on A Deck, a quartet of First Class passengers was
playing a game of bridge. This group consisted of 34-year-old Frederic
Seward, a New York lawyer; 28-year-old Connecticut stockbroker William T.
Sloper; 44-year-old Pauline Gibson; and her 22-year-old daughter, actress
Dorothy Gibson. Sloper recalled that at 11:30 p.m., the Lounge Steward came
by and asked them to finish their game up, as the lights would soon be put out
and everyone else had already gone to bed.135
After the hymn singing in the Second Class Dining Saloon, Sidney Collett
remembered that over dinner, his table companion – ‘a young fellow from
Guernsey’ – had told him that it was very cold on deck. Curious, he decided
to go out to see for himself, and when he did so he found that the man had not
been exaggerating at all, for it was ‘very cold’. Collett recalled that there
‘was much joviality before we went to our berths’. Safe in his cabin, he
‘recited prayers, and it was so quiet you could have heard a pin drop’. One of
his cabin-mates overheard the prayer and thanked him for saying it. It was
about 11:30 p.m. when Collett crawled into his berth.
136
Steward Alfred Theissinger was summoned to one of the cabins in his
care, E-66, at about 11:30. The room was occupied by Arthur Gee, a First
Class passenger en route to Mexico. When Theissinger arrived, Gee asked
him go ‘to the working passage’, or Scotland Road, which was just on the
other side of the ship, ‘and have some firemen, who had just been relieved,
cease their racket’. Theissinger did so, and then went to have a chat with
George Brewster, one of his fellow stewards.
137
Seaman Walter Brice was relaxing outside the Seaman’s Mess Room on
the port side of C Deck, underneath the Forecastle, just after 11:30 p.m. As he
was on duty between 8:00 p.m. and midnight, on an ordinary night he would
have been washing the decks down at that time. However, as it was Sunday,
he and the men he was chatting with were relieved from that duty. On a frigid
night like that one, it was one task that Brice must have been very glad that he
didn’t have to perform.
138 At about this time, the air temperature nearby was
recorded as being only 27°, while the water temperature was only a single
degree warmer, standing at a frigid 28°.
139
Even at this late hour, the Smoking Room was well-populated. Alfred
Nourney, who had upgraded from Second Class after boarding the ship in
Cherbourg, and who was traveling under the pseudonym ‘Baron von
Drachstedt’, was ‘playing bridge in the smoking salon’. Two of his partners in
the game were 39-year-old Henry Blank, a jeweler from Glen Ridge, New
Jersey, and 23-year-old William Greenfield of New York, New York.
Nourney recalled: ‘The sea was calm, like a lake. I said to my bridge partner,
“I wonder when there will be some waves”. ’
Major Arthur Peuchen had left his friends in the Smoking Room shortly
after 11:20. On the way to his cabin, he ‘probably stopped, going down’, but
eventually made it to his room, where he began to undress for bed.140
It had taken a few minutes for William Sloper, Pauline Gibson, Dorothy
Gibson, and Frederic Seward to finish up their game of bridge in the Lounge.
Sloper then bid them all good night, and started down the stairs to his
stateroom.
141
Seventeen-year-old Jack Thayer was still awake, but both he and his
mother Marian were about to climb into bed in their respective staterooms.
The Thayers had adjoining cabins C-66 and C-68, roughly amidships on the
port side, with an adjacent bath. At the time, Jack’s father John was already
asleep. Having just called over to say ‘good night’ to his parents, Jack had
opened the porthole of his cabin, and the breeze was coming in with a ‘quiet
humming whistle’. Far below, he could feel the ‘steady rhythmic pulsation’ of
the ship’s engines. It had been a long and exciting day for Jack, and he was
quite tired. He concluded that it would be ‘a fine night for sleeping’. The
young man began to undress for bed …142
Even after Jacques Futrelle had slipped into the bliss of sleep, where his
wife hoped he would find relief from his headache, May Futrelle still found
that she wanted to go back up on deck. In the end she decided against it, as she
believed her husband might still need her for something. After undressing, she
climbed into bed, pulled out a novel, and started reading until she began to
doze off. The novel was quite engaging, however, and she was nearing the
end. She shook herself awake and kept on reading; this process played out a
couple of times before she dozed off yet again …143
Meanwhile, Norman and Bertha Chambers had ‘left the restaurant and
went to their stateroom’ at some point after 11:00 p.m. They had not gone to
sleep immediately, however, and were still awake after 11:30.144
Third Class passenger Elizabeth Dowdell was in her cabin with little
Virginia Emanuel and Amy Stanley. Elizabeth had already put Virginia to bed,
and was preparing to climb into her berth. Amy had also retired for the
night.
145
Standby Quartermaster Alfred Olliver had been busy ‘running messages
and doing various other duties’ since 10:00 p.m., when he had relinquished
the wheel to Quartermaster Hichens. Then he was ordered to head aft, to the
Compass Platform located on the roof of the First Class Lounge. Once he
arrived and climbed up the platform, he began to check ‘the lights in the
standing compass’, and ‘was trimming them so that they would burn
properly’.
146
Minutes before 11:40 p.m. Jack Phillips was still busy sending private
messages to the Cape Race station. Aboard the Californian, stopped for the
night nearby, Marconi Operator Cyril Evans heard Titanic’s signals as she
transmitted the messages.
147 Evans turned in and went to bed within a few
minutes. For Phillips, however, things were starting to look up, as he was
beginning to thin out the pile of traffic for Cape Race. Perhaps things were
going to begin quieting down …
Lookout Frederick Fleet.
Lookout Reginald Lee.
Up to that point, Sunday had been an ideal day for many of the Titanic’s
passengers. At almost exactly the same time that Evans was overhearing
Phillips working Cape Race, or just before 11:40 p.m., the Titanic was
forging ahead at twenty-two-and-a-half knots through the water … faster than
she had traveled at any other point in the voyage. From noon that day, she had
traveled about 258 miles in eleven hours and forty minutes, at an average
‘speed made good’ of 22.11 knots.
148
From the time that the Titanic had been launched to the time she had left
Belfast on her trials two weeks before, things had been an absolute frenzy of
activity about the liner. It was beginning to seem that things were starting to
settle into a routine.
Although he was on duty, Fourth Officer Boxhall had gone aft and was
sitting in his cabin having a cup of tea. To do so, Boxhall would have needed
to obtain permission from First Officer Murdoch to leave his post. It seems
that the Fourth Officer sought this break because he may not have been feeling
well.
149
At 11:39 p.m., Lookouts Frederick Fleet and Reginald Lee were still
standing watch in the Crow’s Nest. It was bitterly cold, and they had already
served about an hour and thirty-nine minutes of their two hour and twentythree minute watch.
150 Perhaps they were looking forward to the end of their
shift, and thawing out properly in their bunks.
Just then, Fleet spotted a ‘black mass’ in the water, right in the ship’s path.
In that instant, there was no question about what had been spotted … They had
been warned to keep a sharp lookout for ice, and there it was. As Lightoller
and Captain Smith had feared, there was no breaking water at its base to
outline its presence.
151
All of this took only a moment to absorb, and then Fleet opened his mouth
to say, ‘There is ice ahead.’ He simultaneously reached across the Crow’s
Nest and rang the brass bell three times, audibly signaling that there was
something in the ship’s path. Then Fleet went to the starboard side of the
semi-circular nest and picked up the telephone that connected to the Bridge …
152
A period illustration of the Titanic showing how it was thought to have struck the iceberg.

S
CHAPTER 4
RENDEZVOUS WITH DESTINY
Collision: 11:39 – 11:40 p.m.
tandby Quartermaster Alfred Olliver was still working on the compass on
the roof of the First Class Lounge when he ‘heard three bells rung’ up in
the Crow’s Nest. He immediately recognized what that three-bell signal
meant, and looked out to see if he could see anything ahead, but he could not;
the forward funnels were blocking his view. Then he started off for the Bridge
…1
In the Wheelhouse, Quartermaster Robert Hichens also heard the warning
bells sound. The Wheelhouse was completely enclosed, so he was suddenly
placed in a rather unpleasant position: he could not see what the lookouts had
sighted, and had no idea what posed the danger … but at the same time, he had
to be prepared for whatever order came next from First Officer Murdoch.
First Officer Murdoch and Sixth Officer Moody heard the warning bell, as
well. ‘Immediately afterwards’,
2 one of the telephones mounted on the aft
wall of the Wheelhouse began to ring. It was the call from Fleet in the Crow’s
Nest. Moody picked up the phone ‘straight away’ as soon as it began to ring.
3
This sketch was made by a passenger aboard the Cunard liner Carpathia, Colin Campbell Cooper.
Reportedly, it was a representation of the iceberg which sank the Titanic, although the accuracy of
that claim is unclear.
This 1920s photo shows the Captain of the Olympic on the starboard Bridge wing. This was where
First Officer Murdoch first spotted the iceberg.
Moody did not say anything when he lifted the receiver, however. An
anxious Fleet asked through the line: ‘Is someone there?’
‘Yes’, Moody confirmed. ‘What did you see?’
4
Fleet responded with a crisp: ‘Iceberg right ahead!’
5
Moody’s response was almost automatic: ‘Thank you’, he said politely.
6
Then he turned and relayed the warning to Murdoch: ‘Iceberg right ahead!’
It is likely that Murdoch had already seen the iceberg by that point; alerted
by the sounding of the warning bell, he would have been searching for and
closely scrutinizing the water ahead of the ship, even while the report was
being phoned to Moody and passed on … Before beginning an evasive
maneuver, he needed to be precisely sure that his next order was the best
option available, and would not make the situation worse.
7 As soon as Moody
shouted the warning out to him, Murdoch ‘rushed’, apparently from the wing,
on to the Bridge.
8 As he went, he shouted: ‘Hard a starboard!’ Once he
reached the engine order telegraph, the First Officer grabbed the twin handles
– one handle giving orders for each of the main reciprocating engines – and
swung them around until they came to rest ordering ‘Stop’ on both engines.
9
For about thirty seconds from the time the Crow’s Nest warning bell was
rung, Hichens had been waiting for an order, and here it was.
10 He
immediately threw his weight into the wheel, and began turning it in order to
comply with the command.
In giving an order to turn hard to starboard, Murdoch was actually
intending to turn the ship’s bow to port. This was because helm orders were
always reversed, in a hold-over from the times of using tillers rather than
wheels to steer ships. The correct action for Hichens to take in response to
this order was to turn the wheel counter-clockwise, and this is precisely what
he did. Sixth Officer Moody was standing right beside him, watching carefully
to make sure that the helm order was carried out properly.
This 1920s photo shows a Quartermaster at the Bridge wheel of the Olympic. It gives some idea of
Quartermaster Hichens’ stance in the enclosed Wheelhouse that Sunday night; the Wheelhouse
windows were shuttered, however, meaning that Hichens could see nothing outside of the control
center.
Quartermaster Robert Hichens.
As Hichens turned the wheel, he would have felt increasing resistance
from the hydraulic system, which controlled the tiller. It took four complete
revolutions, and perhaps ten seconds, for him to bring the wheel to its furthest
extremity and jam it against its stops.
11 As soon as it did, Moody called out to
confirm to First Officer Murdoch: ‘Hard a-starboard. The helm is hard
over.’12
Was Her Rudder Too Small?
Over the years, it has periodically been asserted that the Titanic’s rudder was too small for
a ship of her size, thus contributing to the collision. However, this allegation does not hold
up under scrutiny. The turning radius and maneuverability of both the Olympic and Titanic
were well known to the British Board of Trade from tests made during the ships’ trials in
1911 and 1912. Both vessels passed these tests with flying colors, and were well within the
acceptable specifications of the Board of Trade.
The two White Star Liners compared favorably with other large ships, such as the
Lusitania and Mauretania, both in the size of their rudder surface compared to the
underwater surfaces areas of their hull, and in respects to their known maneuvering
characteristics. This is noteworthy because the two Cunarders were designed to comply
with the most stringent British Admiralty specifications for potential use as auxiliary
cruisers in time of war.
16
Quartermaster Robert Hichens, when asked if the Titanic was a good steering ship,
responded: ‘Fairly well, yes.’
17
Additionally, no changes were made to the rudder size of the Britannic, the third ship
of the class, when that liner was re-designed in the wake of Titanic’s loss. If there had
been any question about the turning characteristics of the Olympic or Titanic, there is no
doubt that such an alteration would have been implemented on the Britannic.
By any accurate reckoning, there was no deficiency in the size of the Titanic’s rudder.
Indeed, according to even the most rigorous of today’s maritime standards, the Titanic’s
rudder was only fractionally smaller than a modern ship’s would need to be in order to
obtain certification.
Fourth Officer Boxhall was just coming out of the Officers’ Quarters
behind the Bridge, on the starboard side of the Boat Deck. He, too, had heard
the three clangs of the warning bell.
13 As Boxhall began to make his way
forward, he clearly heard Murdoch’s order to turn the helm, as well as the
jangling of the telegraph bells.
Down below, the engineers raced to follow Murdoch’s orders, but it
would take time to take the steam off the engines. In the meanwhile, the ship
continued to charge toward the berg. The liner was so close to the ice that it
was clear the engines were going to have little or no effect on the outcome of
events … everything now fell to the ship’s rudder to do its job properly.
The rudder followed Hichens’ command from the wheel and turned all the
way to port until it came to rest against its stops. The effect was almost
immediate. Back in the Crow’s Nest, Lookout Lee overheard Moody’s ‘Thank
you’, and then Fleet clicked off the receiver and turned forward again to see
what was happening. He noticed that the ship’s head was already beginning to
go to port.
14
 Lee similarly remembered that as …
… soon as the reply came back ‘Thank you,’ the helm must have been
put either hard-a-starboard or very close to it, because she veered to
port, and it seemed almost as if she might clear it …15
A view of Olympic’s stern, props and rudder.
The problem had nothing to do with the ship not being maneuverable enough,
but had everything to do with the fact that the iceberg had simply been spotted
too late … For such a large ship, with a mass of fifty thousand tons, to begin
turning as quickly as Lee noticed, demonstrated that she was responding quite
brilliantly to the maneuvering orders. To those on the Bridge, however, those
next few seconds must have seemed an absolute eternity.
Finally the liner’s stem shot into the clear. As the berg began to glide by
the side of the prow, it seemed as if a collision had been avoided – but only
by a hair’s breadth. However, down below, there came a strange scraping,
bumping, grinding noise as the starboard hull collided with the berg, denting
plates and popping riveted seams.
18 The damage extended intermittently from
the bow to a point just past Boiler Room No. 5’s forward bulkhead. Above,
as the berg passed the forward Well Deck, chunks of ice broke off and
cascaded down onto the pine decking with a loud noise.
On the Bridge, it was obvious that the ship was colliding with the berg;
Murdoch couldn’t have helped but feel the collision, and he would also have
seen the ice tumbling down onto the Well Deck. Fourth Officer Boxhall –
almost to the Bridge by that point – felt it, as well. Murdoch raced toward the
watertight door controls, which were located on the open Bridge …
Quartermaster Olliver also heard the ‘long grinding sound’ of the
collision. Entering the open Bridge from the port side, he saw the top of the
iceberg glide past as he looked through the control center to the starboard
side. Just then, he heard Murdoch order: ‘Hard to port!’ Olliver watched as
Sixth Officer Moody ensured that this order was carried out promptly.
19 He
also noticed that the collision – as evidenced by the continuous sound – had
ceased by the time the berg was ‘just abaft’ the Bridge.
Boxhall arrived on the Bridge about this time, and later claimed that the
Engine Room telegraphs then indicated ‘full speed astern, both.’20 Boxhall
turned his attention from the telegraph to Murdoch, who had just arrived at the
control for the watertight doors; it was located in the main Bridge rather than
the Wheelhouse. Murdoch had already begun to signal the alarm below.
Moody and Olliver then watched as the First Officer ‘turned the lever over’
which closed the doors to seal the compartments.
21
Although there was no indicator panel on the Bridge or Wheelhouse to
show whether the watertight doors were opened or closed, there was little
question that the system had operated effectively and that the doors were
closing.
22 Next Murdoch ordered Olliver to ‘take the time, and told one of the
junior officers to make a note of that in the logbook. That was at 20 minutes of
12.’23
As the ship struck the berg, the men working below in the Boiler Rooms
were quite shaken up; the noise alone was cacophonous and disorienting.
Fireman John Thompson described the impact as a ‘terrible crunching sound’.
Thompson had been shoveling coal, but dropped his shovel and clambered to
the upper deck, where he found everything was quiet.
24 Trimmer George
Cavell had it worse. He was working in the aft coal bunker of Boiler Room
No. 4, and as the ship collided with the berg, an avalanche of coal buried him,
and he ‘had a job to get out’ of the pile.
25
But without a question, the most startled crewmen of all were those
working in Boiler Room No. 6, the forward-most Boiler Room. Leading
Fireman Barrett was on the starboard side of that boiler room, conversing
with Second Engineer John Hesketh, when he heard the telegraph bell ring and
saw the red warning light indicating ‘Stop’ flash on. Barrett yelled, ‘Shut all
dampers’, and almost immediately thereafter he actually saw the iceberg
damage occur in this section. As the iceberg stove the starboard hull plates in,
the Leading Fireman saw water come ‘pouring in two feet above the
stokehold plate’. Barrett and Hesketh immediately headed aft, and made for
Boiler Room No. 5; they were just barely ahead of the closing watertight door
that separated the two compartments.
26 On the port side of Boiler Room No.
6, Fireman George Beauchamp also noticed the telegraph from the Bridge
ringing ‘Stop’, and heard Barrett’s order to shut the dampers. However, he
stayed behind to see to his duty, despite the water which was clearly pouring
in.
27
Leading Fireman Fred Barrett.
Second Engineer John Hesketh.
The fire room on the USS Massachusetts gives an idea of the scene as Barrett and Hesketh were
enveloped by a torrent of icy water.
Titanic’s Poop Deck and Stern Docking Bridge.
As the iceberg passed along the ship’s side, Quartermaster George Rowe
was still on watch at the stern. He was standing underneath the Docking
Bridge, about eight to ten feet from the edge of the deck, when he felt a ‘jar’.
Moving to the starboard edge of the Poop and looking over, Rowe saw the
towering iceberg gliding along less than ten feet from the side of the ship. It
was so close that he felt it was going to hit the edge of the Docking Bridge.
However, Murdoch’s order of ‘Hard a port’ following the initial contact with
the berg had swung the stern out of the way, preventing additional damage to
the hull or to the propellers.
Rowe stared up at the berg and watched it brush past. Then he ran up the
ladder to the Stern Docking Bridge, and over to the port side, where the patent
log was still reading the distance the ship had traveled since noon. ‘About
half a minute’ after the collision, he read the log: 260 nautical miles traveled
since noon. Then Rowe began to feel vibrations as if the ship’s engines were
reversing, so he pulled the log in to prevent the line from fouling the
propellers.
28
In his quarters on the port side, aft of the Bridge, Second Officer
Lightoller had not yet fallen asleep. His room lights were off, and he had laid
there thinking about things for a bit when he noticed a ‘slight jar and a
grinding sound’; to him the noise seemed very faint. One of the first things that
occurred to him was that it may have had something to do with ice, but he
continued to lay in his berth. Then he felt that the engines had stopped.29
Immediately aft of Lightoller’s cabin was that of Third Officer Herbert
Pitman. He was asleep at the time the ship hit the iceberg, and was awakened
by a noise which made him think that ‘the ship was coming to anchor’. It
didn’t seem to be anything serious, just ‘a little vibration’ like that of ‘the
chain running out over the windlass’. He lay in his bunk for a while, trying to
put together in his mind just what had happened.30
Many passengers also felt the collision. First Class passenger Edith
Rosenbaum had just reached her stateroom, A-11, to turn in for the night. Just
as she was switching on the light, ‘the first tremor shook the ship. A second,
then a third – much more violent – jolted me off balance.’ Running to her
window to look out over the enclosed Promenade Deck outside, she noticed
that ‘the cabin floor seemed slightly tilted’. She also noticed the absence of
‘the rhythmic throbbing of the engines’. Through the outer Promenade Deck
windows, she could see ‘a ghostly wall of white’ as it passed.31
Most passengers on the upper decks thought that the collision was less
noticeable than what Miss Rosenbaum recalled. First Class passenger George
Rheims was just coming out of a bathroom on A Deck at 11:40 p.m. As he
closed the door, he felt only a slight shock. The bump was not strong enough
to imbalance him, but he turned just in time to see – even as Edith Rosenbaum
did – a white shape glide rapidly past the windows. He didn’t know what the
shape was at the time, however, and simply returned to his cabin.
32
Frederick and Jane Hoyt, in cabin C-93 on the starboard side, had a
similar experience. They had retired early, and ‘were roused by a noise …
which seemed to indicate that the engines of the ship had reversed. I looked
out of the stateroom window and saw something white passing by. I first
thought it was steam but Mr Hoyt, who had seen icebergs before at sea, told
me what it was.’ The Hoyts decided to go up on deck to investigate the
situation.
33
First Class passenger Edwin Kimball had no doubt what the collision was
… having just returned to cabin D-19, which he shared with his wife Susan,
the Boston native had a rather shocking experience:
I had just gone down from the smoking-room to my stateroom and
removed my coat and was standing in the middle of the room when the
ship struck the iceberg. It seemed to me like scraping and tearing,
more than a shock. It was on the starboard side of the ship under our
room, and the ice came in our port hole.
His wife was quite unnerved by this unexpected development. He had to
assure her ‘that it was simply an iceberg,’ and that they had ‘probably just
scraped it.’34
In port side stateroom A-20, Lady Duff Gordon had been in bed for what
she believed was ‘about an hour’ when she was awakened by ‘a funny
rumbling noise. It was like nothing I had ever heard before. It seemed almost
as if some giant hand had been playing bowls, rolling the great balls along.’ It
was ‘not a tremendous crash’, she recalled, but more like ‘someone had
drawn a giant finger all along the side of the boat’. Then she felt the engines
stop.35
The Sitting Room, B-51, of the Titanic.
Titanic’s bedroom B-59. It was in luxurious rooms such as these that many sleeping First Class
passengers felt the collision.
Just a little further astern, stateroom A-34 was located right off the port
side of the First Class Entrance. There, Dr Washington Dodge, his wife Ruth
and their son Washington, Jr, were sleeping. Doctor Dodge and his wife were
both awakened by the collision, even though it was slight, but young
Washington slept through it. Perhaps the parents’ perception of ‘slight shocks’
in the middle of the night was finely-honed from living in earthquake-prone
San Francisco. Almost immediately afterward, they felt the engines stop.36
Twenty-two-year-old Helen Ostby had ‘just dropped off to sleep’ in
stateroom B-36. Suddenly, she ‘was awakened by a jar that felt about as it
would if you were in a car that scraped the side of a tree’. Miss Ostby ‘sat up
straight in bed, trying to make out what happened’.
37
In stateroom B-39, Marguerite Frölicher was having a miserable night.
Seasick for most of the crossing, and then again after dinner, she had finally
slipped into the bliss of sleep. Suddenly, through the wall between her room
and her parent’s room, B-41, she heard her mother cry out: ‘A collision!’
38
Twenty-four-year-old John Snyder and his 23-year-old wife Nelle were
newlyweds from Minneapolis, Minnesota. They had been married for only
seven weeks, and were finishing up their honeymoon. Snyder’s grandfather,
John Pillsbury, was the cofounder of the C. A. Pillsbury Company and a
former Governor of Minnesota. John and Nelle were asleep in their
stateroom, B-45, when she was ‘aroused by a grating sound at the side of the
boat’. Mrs Snyder called out to her husband to wake him up.39
On the port side, in suite B-52, -54 and -56, Bruce Ismay was asleep
when the collision occurred. He was awakened by ‘a jar’ but ‘stayed in bed a
little time’, perhaps ‘a moment or two’, not realizing exactly what had
happened.40
Gladys Cherry and her cousin Lucy Noël Martha, the Countess of Rothes,
were asleep in stateroom C-77. They were awakened by what seemed like an
awful bang. Then they felt the engines stop, leaving a terrible silence behind.
It seemed to the two women that something horrible had happened.41
Seventeen-year-old Jack Thayer was still awake in stateroom C-66,
getting ready to turn in for the night. When the collision came, Jack was about
to climb into bed, and it didn’t seem very serious to him. ‘I was on my feet at
the time, and I do not think it was enough to throw anyone down,’ he later
recalled. ‘I seemed to sway slightly. I immediately realized that the ship had
veered to port as though she had been gently pushed … Almost
instantaneously the engines stopped. The sudden quiet was startling and
disturbing.’42
In cabin C-104, Major Arthur Peuchen was in the process of undressing
for bed when he felt something unusual. It was ‘as though a heavy wave had
struck our ship. She quivered under it somewhat.’ If the sea had not been so
perfectly calm, Peuchen would have thought nothing of it. But on a calm night,
this was something unusual. He immediately put on his overcoat and went up
on deck.
43
Charles Stengel and his wife Annie were in stateroom C-116, and were
both sleeping. Annie was trying to wake Charles, as he was moaning in his
sleep. ‘Wake up’, she said, ‘you are dreaming.’
Charles woke up, and just then, he heard ‘a slight crash’. However, he
paid no attention to it until he also heard the engines stop. Then he said,
‘There is something serious; there is something wrong. We had better go up on
deck.’44
At that time, Elmer and Juliet Taylor were in their stateroom, C-126.
Juliet was still reading and warming her feet by the electric heater, while
Elmer had dozed off. Then he was …
… aroused by a very slight lift of the bed, followed by the engines
stopping. I did not get up immediately, but speculated on the cause of
the stopping of the engines.
45
Karl Behr and Richard Beckwith had left the Smoking Room only a few
minutes before the collision. Beckwith was the man that Behr hoped to one
day call his father-in-law; he liked Beckwith’s step-daughter Helen Newsom
very much. Behr had reached his cabin, C-148 aft on the port side, and started
to undress. Then he felt ‘a distinct jar, followed by a quivering of the boat.’
He understood immediately that they had struck something, and began to
reverse the dressing process, putting on the clothes he had just taken off.
46
May Futrelle had dozed off over her novel when she felt a ‘shock and a
kind of shiver of the ship. It was so slight that it did not disturb anything, but I
sat up in bed. I heard the engines pounding below – reversing. For about
twenty seconds, I should say, this pounding continued. Then followed another
shock, scarcely heavier than the first.’ She sat up, a bit frightened; she also
thought she heard some sort of ‘gong’ sounding below.
47
Isaac Frauenthal was still reading a book in cabin D-40, trying to wind
down so that he could get to sleep, when he heard a noise that puzzled him:
It was a long-drawn out, rubbing noise, much the same as you hear
when a ferry boat bumps into her slip and rubs slowly along its walls.
There was nothing specially alarming about it, but it seemed out of
place somehow …48
Fifty-nine-year-old Philadelphian socialite Mrs Emma Bucknell had wintered
in Rome, visiting her daughter Margaret, now the Countess Pecorini. Her
husband William – the man who had saved Bucknell University from financial
ruin in 1881 – had died in 1890, but she was not traveling alone. She was
sharing her cabin – D-15, on the starboard side of the ship – with her maid
Albina Bazzani. To Mrs Bucknell, it seemed ‘at that moment of jar and
thunder and shock that the very bottom of the boat had been torn out’. Looking
out through their porthole a moment later, she ‘saw something rise against the
window which was white. At first I thought it was a spray of water, but it was
the ice.’49
Next door, in cabin D-17, Margaret Swift and Alice Leader were still
chatting when they heard ‘an awful crash’. However, Mrs Swift noticed that
‘the vessel stood up well after it and we did not think much about it’.
50
In outside First Class cabin D-28, just forward of the First Class
Reception Room and Entrance on the port side of the ship, Elizabeth and Mary
Lines had retired for the night. It had been so cold that afternoon and evening
that there was little else to do but go to bed, Mary later recalled. The teenage
girl was just dozing off when she felt ‘a jarring crash’.
51
Eleanor Cassebeer, in her D Deck stateroom, had just finished asking a
stewardess if it would be all right to leave her heater on overnight. The
stewardess assured her that it would. ‘Immediately after she had left my cabin
the shock of the collision came. It sounded as if something were grinding and
tearing away the very entrails of the monster liner,’ Mrs Cassebeer recalled.
Certain that something was ‘radically wrong’, she poked her nose out to ask a
nearby steward about it. He said nothing was wrong, and that she could go
back to bed. Instead, she decided to head up on deck, and began to slip on a
kimono and a pair of slippers.
52
Philipp Mock had been sound asleep before the collision. He awoke –
curiously enough – ‘standing in the middle of his cabin floor’ and was not at
all sure how he had arrived there. Hearing ‘a series of “booms”, ’ he
immediately headed out of his cabin to find out what was happening. His
sister, Emma Schabert, was asleep when ‘a mighty crash’ woke her up.53
Forty-seven-year-old First Class passenger Carrie Chaffee and her
husband, 46-year-old Herbert, were asleep in their cabin, E-31. The jar of the
collision awakened Mrs Chaffee, but ‘was not violent’. There was ‘a noise as
if a chain were being dragged along the side’. She commented to her husband
that it sounded as if ‘something were being done with the anchor chains’.
Feeling no alarm, they ‘turned the electric button to see if the lights were still
on and found that they were’.
54
Just aft of the Chaffee’s, in cabin E-44, Mr & Mrs William and Alice
Silvey were still awake ‘when the shock came. If I had not been awake, I do
not believe I would have noticed it, it was so slight.’ Her husband looked out
of their starboard side porthole and told her that ‘nothing appeared to be
wrong’.
55
Margaret Brown was reading in her cabin when she felt the collision. She
didn’t think much of it, but poked her nose out into the corridor outside her
room. She saw a few passengers there, the men in pajamas and the ladies in
kimonos. They kidded with each other about being ready to swim in their
nightclothes. Margaret noticed that the ship’s engines had stopped, but nothing
serious seemed to be happening, so she returned to her room and to her
book.
56
Norman and Bertha Chambers were in their cabin, E-8, when they
‘noticed a curious grinding rumble, as though a heavy chain had been dragged
the length of the ship in the hold’. Then they heard the engines stop.57
Antoinette Flegenheim was a wealthy forty-eight-year-old widow
traveling for a visit to America. Formerly a resident of New York, she had
gone to live in Berlin after the death of her husband, who was from Germany.
Mrs Flegenheim was bound for New Windsor – just outside Newburgh – New
York. There she was to stay with her friends, Mr & Mrs William Walker. The
socialite widow was sleeping in her cabin when she was awakened ‘by the
scraping of the boat against the ice. The noise and the movement of the vessel
indicated that something was wrong’, and she immediately arose, determined
to ascertain what the trouble was.
58
William Sloper was by the forward Grand Staircase on the way to his
stateroom, which was only a few feet from the Washington Dodge’s stateroom.
Just then he felt a lurch and a ‘creaking crash; the boat seemed to shiver and
keel over to port’.
59 At the same time, the frivolities in the First Class
Smoking Room aft on the same deck were suddenly interrupted. Hugh
Woolner said that everyone present in the room at the time felt …
… a sort of stopping, a sort of, not exactly shock, but a sort of slowing
down; and then we sort of felt a rip that gave a sort of slight twist to
the whole room. Everybody, so far as I could see, stood up …60
William Carter, also in the Smoking Room, remembered that the impact
occurred ‘exactly 17 minutes of 12 o’clock’.
61 Alfred Nourney had just
remarked to his bridge partner that he was wondering when there would be
some waves when the ship ‘was shaken slightly’.
62
A number of Second Class passengers felt the impact, as well. Lillian
Bentham was just disrobing for bed when the Titanic struck the iceberg.
Something about the ship’s motions caught her off guard, and she went sailing
into the wall of her cabin. Other than some bruising, however, she was
happily uninjured.63
Such recollections of being thrown off balance due to the collision,
however, were very rare. Because Second Class accommodations were aft, to
most of the Second Class passengers it was not so much the collision as it
was the stopping of the engines that made an impression. Sidney Collett had
been in bed ‘about 10 minutes’ when he felt ‘two heavy throbs, just as if we
had hit something, rebounded and then hit it again by going forward’.
64
Lawrence Beesley felt something very similar. While reading in his upper
berth – which was against the starboard wall of his cabin, D-56 – he ‘felt a
slight jar, and then soon after a second one, but not sufficiently large to cause
any anxiety to anyone, however nervous they may have been. However, the
engines stopped immediately afterward and my first thought was “She has lost
a propeller.” ’ He also remembered a ‘more than usually obvious dancing
motion of the mattress on which I sat’.
65
Nora Keane, Susan Webber and Edwina Troutt were roommates in Second
Class cabin E-101. Miss Webber recalled that at about ‘20 minutes of 12’ she
was ‘awakened by a slight shock’.
66 Nora Keane also described the impact as
a ‘slight shock’, and didn’t think anything of it.
67
Ellen Toomey was still awake in her cabin, which she shared with
Elizabeth Watt and her daughter Bertha, as well as Mrs Rosa Pinsky. Toomey
said that at ‘about 11:45 p.m.’, she ‘felt a slight shock, and then the steamer’s
engines stopped’.
68
Twenty-year-old Second Class passenger Dagmar Bryhl was in her berth
at the time of the collision. The pretty Swedish girl was traveling to Rockford,
Illinois, to visit her uncle; she was traveling with her brother Kurt, and her
fiancé Ingvar Enander. She noticed a ‘jar’, but it didn’t seem pronounced to
her.
69
William Mellors was asleep when the collision happened. He ‘did not
take any notice’ of the slight shock, only stirring slightly before turning over
and going back to sleep.70
Twelve-year-old Ruth Becker was not awakened by the sensation or
sounds of a collision, either. What she did recall was that the engines stopped.
‘Everything was silent, and it woke us up.’71
Esther Hart was still awake at the time of the collision, and she
remembered it as ‘the most awful’ sound she had ever heard. She jumped to
her feet and shook her husband awake. ‘Daddy’, she called to him, ‘get up at
once. We have hit something I am sure and it’s serious.’
This wasn’t the first time during the trip that she had thought there was
trouble afoot, and all of the previous ‘events’ had come to naught. As
Benjamin struggled to a state of semi-alertness, he groused: ‘Oh woman,
again! I really don’t know what I shall do with you?’ Eventually, he got up and
went on deck in bare feet and a nightshirt.
72
Mrs Mary Hewlett ‘was not awakened by the shock of the collision with
the iceberg’. However, she did awaken ‘when the ship’s engines stopped
pounding’.
73
Charlotte Collyer was talking with her husband in their cabin when the
crash came. To her, the sensation seemed like ‘a long backward jerk,
followed by a shorter forward one’. Her husband was standing at the time,
and only swayed on his feet. Then they noticed that the engines had stopped
running.
74
Imanita Shelley and her mother were ‘startled out of their dreams’ by the
collision and the ‘dreadful sensation caused by the stopping of the engines’.
Imanita asked: ‘What can be the matter, mother? The engines have stopped
and a ship never stops until it gets into port unless there is an accident.’ Just
then they overheard several women ‘talking excitedly outside and then a
man’s voice saying the ship had struck an iceberg’. Imanita Shelley ‘rang the
bell for the steward and rang and rang and rang’.
75
Third Class passengers were housed both forward and aft, and most were
in the lowest passenger accommodations on the ship. Many of them felt the
collision, as well – and to most, it registered more strongly than it did with
those on higher decks.
Third Class passenger Emily Badman and her three female cabin-mates
were housed up in the forward sections of the ship. She recalled:
I had gone to bed about half past 10 Sunday night. My birth [sic, berth]
was in the third cabin, up near the front on the right hand [starboard
side] of the Titanic. I was awakened by some jar, which sounded as if
the boat were scraping land. There were four of us in the cabin.
One of the girls looked out of the porthole and said she could see
nothing.
76
Not sure what was happening, the four girls started to dress. Anna Sjöblom,
who had just turned eighteen on Sunday, was also in a cabin near the ship’s
bow. She, also, was awakened by the crash, and remembered that ‘everyone
became excited at once’.
77
Mrs. Rhoda Abbott was an American woman traveling with her two
teenaged sons, Rossmore and Eugene. Mrs Abbott had separated from her
husband about a year before, and the previous summer, the three had moved
from Providence, Rhode Island in order to live with her mother in England.
However, the two boys were homesick for Providence, and so they were
traveling back to America. Mrs Abbott had been sleeping, but she ‘was
awakened by the crash of the liner’. Quickly ‘becoming alarmed’, she sent her
son Eugene on deck to investigate what had happened.78
Elizabeth Dowdell was in the cabin she shared with her ward, Virginia
and Miss Amy Stanley. She was about to get into bed when she felt the
‘crash’. Elizabeth looked out into the corridor outside their room and asked a
nearby steward what was wrong. He assured her that everything was all right,
so she climbed into bed. Amy Stanley, however, decided to investigate
matters further.
79
Eleven-year-old Master Elias Nicola-Yarred and his 14-year-old sister
Jamilia were asleep in their Third Class quarters at the time of the collision.
The two children were traveling without their father, as he had failed to pass a
physical examination. Elias recalled that it was at ‘approximately 11:45’ that
night that he and his sister were awakened ‘with a jolt’. She was in the upper
berth at the time, and cried out: ‘Something’s wrong!’
‘Go back to sleep,’ her little brother told her. ‘You worry too much.’80
Sixteen-year-old Laura Cribb, a fellow Third Class passenger, was
traveling with her father John. She remembered that she ‘suddenly awoke and
with a slight shiver sat bolt upright in my bunk. I feel sure I sat there for a full
three minutes. Suddenly the ship gave a violent jerk and the engines
stopped.’81
Following the conclusion of the music playing and festivities in the Third
Class General Room, Eugene Daly and the two men who were sharing the
cabin with him had all returned to their room in the bow.
82 They did not
undress, and laid on their bunks, talking about their prospects in America.
Daly had just fallen asleep when ‘a sound like thunder’ jarred him awake. He
leapt out of his bunk and went to the door. A steward in the hallway assured
him that ‘there was nothing serious’ and that he ‘might go back’.
83
Percival and Florence Thorneycroft were also in a Third Class cabin.
Florence was still awake at the time, as she was ‘rather seasick’. Suddenly
she felt a ‘jar and noticed the stopping of the engines’. Her husband told her
that the boat had struck something, but he did not think that the accident was of
any real consequence.
84
Concurrently, many members of the crew had also felt the collision.
Lookout George Hogg was sleeping in his berth forward, and was awakened
at ‘about 20 minutes to 12’. He remembered that there was ‘confusion in the
forecastle’. He quickly got up to find out what was going on.
85
Seaman Walter Brice was relaxing near the Seamen’s Mess on C Deck,
underneath the Forecastle. Although he was on watch, there was little to do,
since on Sunday nights they were not required to wash the ship’s decks. When
he felt the collision, he recalled that it was not some sort of violent shock that
threw him off his feet; rather, it ‘was like a heavy vibration’ and a ‘rumbling
noise’ which continued for about ‘10 seconds’.
86
First Class Stewardess Violet Jessop was lying in her top berth, not quite
asleep but ‘comfortably drowsy’. Then she heard a ‘crash’, followed by a
‘low, rending, crunching, ripping sound’. The ship ‘shivered a trifle’, and the
throb of her engines began to cease. Quiet followed, and Jessop could hear
nearby doors opening and voices making discreet enquiries. She looked down
at her cabin-mate, who was also awake in the lower berth.
‘Sounds as if something has happened’, Jessop’s cabin-mate said.
Jessop felt the urge to laugh at the understatement, and replied: ‘Something
has happened!’ The two women began to dress.
87
At around 10:00 p.m., Steward Walter Nichols had turned in to his bunk
amidships on the port side of E Deck. He remembered:
At 11:40 I was awakened by feeling a bit of vibration. The ship went
on for a bit and then the engines stopped. Nobody was frightened and
some of the men in the room with me didn’t want to trouble to get up to
look out and see what had happened.88
Saloon Steward Frederick Dent Ray was asleep in his berth, also amidships
on the port side of E Deck. The space was large enough to accommodate
twenty-eight men, most of them Saloon Stewards. All of them, including Ray,
were awakened by the collision. Ray sat up in his bunk, but did not get up.
Eventually he turned over and started to try to get back to sleep.89
Saloon Steward William Ward felt the collision, as well. He got up out of
his berth – which was in one of the three side-by-side rooms for
accommodating Saloon Stewards amidships on the port side – and went over
to the porthole. Opening it, he felt a blast of ‘bitterly cold’ air, but saw
nothing but darkness outside. So he climbed back into his warm bunk.
90
Mess Steward Cecil William Norman Fitzpatrick was just settling down
to sleep in his E Deck cabin, not far from the Engine Room. He and his mates
‘were aroused by a sudden lurch of the vessel’ and the stopping of the
engines.
91
Bedroom Steward Alfred Theissinger was awake talking to fellow
Bedroom Steward George Brewster in their E Deck quarters. As the two men
talked, there came ‘a noise, as is made by a rowboat running over a gravel
beach. There was a slight shock, but absolutely no severe jolt.’ Then the two
men felt the ship’s engines stop. Brewster and Theissinger looked at each
other. Brewster spoke first: ‘What do you think that is?’
92
11:40 p.m.–12:00 midnight
Back up in the First Class Smoking Room, everyone had leapt to their feet
with the sensation of the collision. Almost as if unified by some sort of
collective consciousness, they raced aft, through the revolving door that led to
the port side Verandah Café … past the tables and wicker chairs in the Café
… and then out through the sliding doors onto the Promenade Deck astern,
near the base of the Mainmast. Hugh Woolner recalled:
I stood hearing what the conjectures were. People were guessing what
it might be, and one man called out, ‘An iceberg has passed astern’,
but who it was I do not know.
93
William Carter, who was also standing in the group on the deck, similarly
recalled being told ‘that the ship had struck an iceberg’. After learning what
had happened, many of the men in the group returned to the Smoking Room
and to their card games.
94 Alfred Nourney went back inside with the others,
and resumed his own card game.
95
William Carter happened to come across some officers, and they informed
him ‘that the accident was not a serious one’. There was ‘little excitement at
the time.’ However, Carter had a family to look after, so he decided to head
below to his two adjoining staterooms, B-96 and B-98, where his family was
sleeping. He woke his wife up, and told her about what had occurred. He then
told her that she and the children should dress.
96
William Sloper was still by the top of the stairs headed for his cabin. He
saw about a half-dozen room stewards go by, and they all rushed out onto the
Promenade Deck, where they peered into the darkness. ‘We could see what
appeared to be a sail or something white standing out off our starboard side,
astern.’97
As the ship’s engines were stopped, her momentum gradually began to
slacken. On the Bridge, there had only been a few moments of stunned silence
since the iceberg passed, and since Murdoch had signaled down to close the
watertight doors. Murdoch and Boxhall did not even have the opportunity to
speak before Boxhall turned, and found Captain Smith standing at his side.
98
Olympic’s Smoking Room, looking aft and to port toward the fireplace.
The port side Verandah Café of the Olympic in 1911, looking toward the revolving door to the
Smoking Room, which is open in this photo.
The sliding doors which led aft from the Verandah Café to the open Promenade.
‘What have we struck?’ Smith asked his First Officer.
According to Boxhall, Murdoch replied: ‘An iceberg, sir. I put her hard-astarboard and run the engines full astern, but it was too close. She hit it. I
intended to port around it, but she hit before I could do any more.’99 Hichens
and Olliver were close enough that they also overheard this exchange.
100
‘Close the watertight doors,’ Smith ordered instinctively. ‘The watertight
doors are closed, sir.’
‘And have you rung the warning bell?’ Smith asked, to which Murdoch
replied in the affirmative.
101
Since the ship’s head was still turning to starboard, as the tiller remained
hard over to port, Smith, Murdoch and Boxhall walked out onto the starboard
wing of the Bridge, trying to spot the iceberg.
102
 Boxhall was not sure whether
he could discern the berg’s form, as his eyes were not yet adjusted to the dark.
Then – either at an order from the Captain, or with his express permission –
Boxhall left the Bridge to head below and look for any sign of damage.
103 He
elected to use the emergency stairs just behind the Bridge wing to get down to
B Deck … then he walked forward and to port, beyond the ship’s centerline,
to take the staircase down to the open Well Deck …
Even as Boxhall started off on his inspection, the Titanic continued to
move forward and the iceberg gradually vanished into the darkness from
which it had appeared. Even so, there were still many passengers and crew
who were curious to find out what had happened.
Bruce Ismay had stayed in his bed for a few moments after the collision.
His first thought was that the ship had dropped a propeller blade. Curious,
Ismay got up, opened the door to his cabin, and walked along the passageway.
He met a steward, and asked him: ‘What has happened?’
The steward replied: ‘I do not know, sir.’
Ismay was not satisfied. He returned to his room, and could feel that the
ship was slowing down. Something was definitely wrong. Ismay put an
overcoat over his pajamas and set off for the Bridge to find out what had
happened.104
On the port side of the Promenade Deck, Dr Washington Dodge heard
some ‘hurried footsteps’ on the Boat Deck directly above their cabin. He
partially dressed and slipped out onto the ‘forward companionway’, almost
certainly a reference to the Forward First Class Entrance directly adjacent his
cabin, by the top flight of the Grand Staircase. There the doctor found about a
half-dozen men, all of whom were speculating about what had happened.
Then, ‘an officer passed by somewhat hurriedly,’ and Dodge asked him what
the trouble was. The ‘officer’ replied that ‘he thought something had gone
wrong with the propeller, but that it was nothing serious.’
Dr Dodge left the group of men and returned to his stateroom. There, he
found his wife was a bit uneasy. She was about to get up and get dressed.
Dodge informed her of what the officer had told him, that something had gone
wrong with the propeller. Yet that explanation didn’t make sense to either of
them; they both agreed that it felt more like something had struck the ship on
its side. However, they were not alarmed, knowing just how large and safe the
Titanic was. Dr Dodge decided to investigate things more thoroughly.
105
Meanwhile, Major Arthur Peuchen started out of his room, and began to
head up the forward Grand Staircase. As he did so, he bumped into a casual
acquaintance who told him: ‘Why, we have struck an iceberg. If you will go
up on A deck, you will see the ice on the fore part of the ship.’ So Peuchen
headed up to see for himself.
106
In his Second Class cabin on D Deck, Lawrence Beesley ‘felt the engines
slow and stop’ only ‘a few moments’ after the collision. The ‘dancing motion
and the vibration ceased suddenly after being part of our very existence for
four days, and that was the first hint that anything out of the ordinary had
happened … But the stopping of the engines gave us no information.’ His first
conclusion was that the ship had dropped a propeller blade, but he was
determined to find out more.
I jumped out of bed, slipped on a dressing-gown over pyjamas, put on
shoes, and went out of my cabin into the hall near the saloon. Here
was a steward leaning against the staircase, probably waiting until
those in the smokeroom above had gone to bed and he could put out
the lights. I said, ‘Why have we stopped?’ ‘I don’t know, sir,’ he
replied, ‘but I don’t suppose it’s anything much.’ ‘Well’, I said, ‘I am
going on deck to see what it is,’ and started towards the stairs. He
smiled indulgently at me as I passed him, and said, ‘All right, sir, but
it is mighty cold up there.’ I am sure at that time he thought I was
rather foolish to go up with so little reason, and I must confess I felt
rather absurd for not remaining in the cabin: it seemed like making a
needless fuss to walk about the ship in a dressing-gown. But it was my
first trip across the sea; I had enjoyed every minute of it and was
keenly alive to note every new experience; and certainly to stop in the
middle of the sea with a propeller dropped seemed sufficient reason
for going on deck. And yet the steward, with his fatherly smile, and the
fact that no one else was about the passage or going upstairs to
reconnoiter, made me feel guilty in an undefined way of breaking some
code of a ship’s régime – and Englishman’s fear of being thought
‘unusual’, perhaps!
I climbed three flights of stairs, opened the vestibule door leading
to the top deck, and stepped out into an atmosphere that cut me, clad as
I was, like a knife. Walking to the starboard side, I peered over and
saw the sea many feet below, calm and black; forward, the deserted
deck stretching away to the first-class quarters and the captain’s
bridge; and behind, the steerage quarters and the stern bridge; nothing
more: no iceberg on either side or astern as far as we could see in the
darkness.
107
Not far away from Beesley’s cabin, Sidney Collett had felt the collision, and
his impression of it was very much like the one Beesley had formed. He
jumped out of bed, ‘put on light clothing’ and then went up on deck.
108
Second Class passenger Mary Hewlett had been awakened by the
stopping of the ship’s engines. She went to the door of her cabin, and found a
stewardess in the hall. She asked ‘if there had been an accident’. The
stewardess replied that ‘she did not believe there was any trouble’, but that
Mrs Hewlett could go up on deck to see for herself, if she wanted to. Curious,
Mrs Hewlett went up on the deck and found them nearly deserted. She said
that men were lazily sauntering around the deck, and some were inside
playing cards. Many ‘seemed to treat the matter as a joke’, and everyone
thought that the ‘boat was absolutely unsinkable’.
109
Lillian Bentham was curious about the collision which had thrown her off
balance. She ‘looked out into the corridor’, and a nearby steward told her that
‘they had struck a Newfoundland fishing-boat’. He reassured her that there
was no danger. Miss Bentham was not easily alarmed, so she took the steward
at his word, crawled into bed, and fell fast asleep.110
Philipp Mock left his cabin very quickly after the collision. He made his
way toward his sister’s cabin, which was further forward on the starboard
side. When he met Emma, the pair made a few inquiries as to what had
happened. However, they couldn’t obtain much in the way of details, so they
decided to return to their respective cabins and get dressed. As he returned to
his cabin, Mock heard some of the stewards telling people that nothing was
the matter, and advising them to return to bed. Many took that advice, he
noticed. Meanwhile, Emma started dressing. She did not bother to put on a
blouse, but rather donned a knitted jacket, and also placed a scarf over her
head for protection from the cold.111
Helen Ostby remembered that after the collision, the engines were
stopped, and everything was completely silent for a minute or two. She heard
a few voices in the corridor outside her cabin, including one woman who
asked a steward what had happened. She overheard the steward reply calmly:
‘Everything will be all right.’ Miss Ostby got out of bed and pulled on a
dress, coat and shoes. However, as she dressed, the abstract idea occurred to
her that she might not want to have too much clothing on if she had to be in the
water.
112
Chief Electrician Peter Sloan.
William and Alice Silvey had felt the collision, but they did not believe
that anything was really wrong. Shortly thereafter, they noticed that the engines
stopped. Even this development did not alarm them, since when they had
crossed previously on the Olympic, the engines had stopped on account of an
accident. They thought something similar had happened. However, Mr Silvey
suggested that they dress and go up on deck.
113
Far below and aft, in the Electric Workshop above the Turbine Engine
Room, Greaser Thomas Ranger had been mending a fan when he felt ‘a slight
jar’ as the iceberg scraped the bow. About two minutes after the jar, he was
able to see that the changeover valves had come up, indicating that the turbine
engine was stopped. Chief Electrician Peter Sloan went down and stood by
the main lighting engines.
114
After the crash, Eleanor Cassebeer had slipped on a kimono and slippers,
convinced that something was ‘radically wrong’. She hurried from her cabin
on the starboard side of D Deck, forward of the Reception Room, and moved
up to the Promenade Deck, probably by way of the forward Grand Staircase.
She found no sign of anything wrong at all, just two long stretches of empty
deck.
Then she came across one of her table companions, stockbroker Harry
Anderson. Together, the pair made their way ‘to the bow of the boat’,
probably a reference to the forward bulwark rail of the A Deck Promenade,
which overlooked the Well Deck below. Looking down, they ‘found a litter of
small particles of ice which had been torn from the iceberg by force of the
impact’. From their vantage point, they ‘could see the berg towering some 75
to 100 feet out of the sea’.
While they stood there, they bumped into another of their table
companions, Thomas Andrews. Since Andrews’ cabin was astern on A Deck,
by the aft Grand Staircase, Andrews and Cassebeer had probably left their
respective staterooms at roughly the same time, almost immediately after the
collision. Mrs Cassebeer recalled that in …
… answer to many questions he [Andrews] assured everybody that we
were absolutely safe, and that the Titanic was absolutely unsinkable.
He said that she could break in three separate and distinct parts and
that each part would stay afloat indefinitely.
If Cassebeer and Anderson could see the iceberg and the ice on the Well Deck
below, Andrews almost certainly saw it, as well. Then Andrews moved on.
Cassebeer and Anderson stayed behind.115
Albert Dick and his wife Vera had been sleeping in their B Deck
stateroom when the collision came, and were awakened by the shock.
Together, they made their way out on deck, and soon discovered that they had
struck an iceberg. Vera recalled being able to see the berg.
116
Major Peuchen arrived at the forward rail of A Deck and peered down
onto the Well Deck. As his friend had told him, there was ice down there. It
had ‘fallen inside the rail, probably 4 to 4 ½ feet. It looked like shell ice, soft
ice. But you could see it quite plainly along the bow of the boat.’ Peuchen
stood there for ‘a few minutes’, talking to some of his other friends, none of
them thinking that anything was seriously wrong.
117
Edith Rosenbaum had seen the iceberg pass the window of her A Deck
stateroom, and had immediately ‘slipped on a coat and ran out on deck’. She
recalled:
There were no more than five passengers standing at the rail when I
got there. Publisher William Stead stood frowning at the ice fragments
which littered the deck. Artist Francis Millet came down the
companionway from the bridge. ‘What do they say is the trouble?’
Stead asked.
‘Iceberg,’ Millet answered.
We all turned to the great floating mountain of white with new
interest. It had drifted some distance to starboard and loomed
indistinct and mysterious in the velvet dark.
‘Well, I guess it’s nothing serious,’ Mr Stead said. ‘I’ll go back to
my cabin and read. Cheerio, all.’
The rest of us made our way forward, gathering up ice chips and
balling them in our hands. Someone suggested a snow fight, but it was
too cold for that.
With the excitement fading, Rosenbaum returned to her stateroom, undressed,
and prepared to climb into bed.118
Immediately following the collision, First Class passenger Margaretta
Spedden partially dressed and went up on deck. Though she herself wasn’t
told to go back to her room and go to bed, she heard some other passengers
being given such direction.
119
Isaac Frauenthal thought that the stopping of the engines was ‘out of
place’, and so he got up ‘to call for a steward and inquire what was wrong’.
Just as he did so, he …
… heard a furious pounding on the door of a stateroom near mine, and
when I put my head out, a man whom I didn’t know was doing his best
to awaken his friends in that room. He said something about the ship
hitting something, but was so incoherent I couldn’t make head nor tail
out of his explanation.
Something wasn’t right, that much was for sure. To Frauenthal, it ‘looked like
a good time to take precautions’, so he returned to his room and began to
dress.
120
Edwin Kimball left his ice-littered cabin and stepped out into the
companionway outside, where he ‘spoke to some friends who were located in
the same section’. Then he went on deck to see if he could see the iceberg. He
remembered that there were ‘very few people out around the ship’. To those
few who were milling about, stewards and officers were assuring them that
everything was alright, and all were advised to return to bed.121
First Class passenger James R. McGough, a buyer with Strawbridge &
Clothier, had a starboard side cabin on E Deck. He was awakened by the
collision, and left his stateroom to see what the matter was. He came upon
Second Steward George Dodd, who told him there was no danger, and
advised McGough to go back to bed – something that McGough did not do.122
First Class passenger James McGough.
Trimmer Patrick Dillon.
George Rheims had felt the collision and seen the iceberg glide past. He
encountered his Bedroom Steward just as he was entering his stateroom on A
Deck. Rheims asked if he knew what had happened. The steward ‘said he
didn’t know but thought that something might have happened to the
machinery’.
123
Lookout George Hogg had run up ‘on the deck’, probably a reference to
the open Forward Well Deck. He found that there ‘was not much confusion’
there, so he soon decided to return to his quarters.
124
Able Bodied Seaman Joseph Scarrott had reacted similarly to Hogg.
Scarrott was having a smoke just below the Forecastle; he actually heard the
three soundings of the Crow’s Nest bell, and shortly thereafter had felt the
impact. ‘It seemed as if the ship shook in the same manner as if the engines
had been suddenly reversed to full speed astern, just the same sort of
vibration, enough to wake anybody up if they were asleep.’ He also placed
the time at ‘about twenty minutes to twelve o’clock’. Scarrott quickly headed
down to his mate, who was then in the Seaman’s Wash Place on E Deck. His
friend told him to ‘give him a call if anything was doing’. Then Scarrott
‘rushed on deck with the remainder of those that were in the forecastle … to
see what was the cause of the vibration.’ He recalled:
We found the ship had struck an iceberg as there was a large quantity
of ice and snow on the starboard side of the fore deck. We did not
think it very serious so we went below again cursing the iceberg for
disturbing us.
125
On the Bridge, at around 11:43 p.m., Captain Smith rang the Engine Room
telegraphs to ‘Stop’, followed by ‘Slow Ahead’. He then ordered
Quartermaster Olliver below to find the Carpenter, and to instruct him to ‘take
the draft of the water’.
126
In the Engine Room, Trimmer Patrick Dillon
observed the engines starting to go ahead slowly.
127
Simultaneously, Fourth Officer Boxhall was hurrying on his inspection
trip, moving down to the Well Deck via the emergency stairway, and then
forward to a staircase under the Forecastle. He moved down through the
lower passenger areas in the bow, all the way down to F Deck, and found no
damage. Then he turned back and started to make his way up again …128
Lawrence Beesley had gone up on deck in his dressing gown after the
collision. The air was cold, but he noticed that there …
… were two or three men on deck, and with one – the Scotch engineer
who played hymns in the saloon [Douglas Norman] – I compared
notes of our experiences. He had just begun to undress when the
engines stopped and had come up at once, so that he was fairly wellclad; none of us could see anything, and all being quiet and still, the
Scotchman and I went down to the next deck.
There, through the windows of the Second Class Smoking Room, Beesley and
Norman saw some men playing a game of cards, and several others watching
them. As these men had been up at the time of the collision, the pair went
inside to inquire if the card-players knew anything more than they did. None
had bothered to go out on deck or try to find out what had happened, even
though ‘one of them had seen through the windows an iceberg go by towering
above the decks. He had called their attention to it, and they all watched it
disappear, but had then at once resumed the game.’ They asked how high it
was, and got a range of estimates, with one passenger saying he thought it was
‘between eighty and ninety feet’ high.
The next question was: what had happened to the ship? The ‘general
impression was that we had just scraped the iceberg with a glancing blow on
the starboard side, and they had stopped as a wise precaution, to examine her
thoroughly all over.’
One of the men ventured: ‘I expect the iceberg has scratched off some of
her new paint, and the captain doesn’t like to go on until she is painted up
again.’ Everyone laughed. Another man looked up from his hand of cards,
pointed to the glass of whiskey at his elbow, and turned to an onlooker,
saying: ‘Just run along the deck and see if any ice has come aboard: I would
like some for this.’ The laughter continued, and finally Beesley decided to
return to his cabin, where he started reading again.
129
While young Robertha Watt had slept through the collision, her mother
Elizabeth ‘Bessie’ Watt had felt the impact. Their cabin-mate Ellen Toomey
had been awake, and felt it, as well. She remembered that Elizabeth Watt
‘went at once to the deck to learn what was wrong’. However, she did not
return ‘for quite awhile’, and eventually Ellen got up to dress herself.
130
In her Third Class cabin, sixteen-year-old Laura Cribb had felt the
collision, and felt the engines stop. Then she ‘dressed quickly and hurried out
into the main passage which was rapidly filling with passengers’. Everyone
was asking the same question: ‘What has happened?’ A moment later, she
heard her father, 44-year-old John Cribb, calling out for her. Laura
remembered that she ‘answered as loudly as I could and he soon located me.
He asked me if I was dressed and I replied that I was.’ Then the two set off to
the ‘end of the passage’ to talk with some other passengers and see what they
could find out.
131
Tennis player Karl Behr had put his clothes back on after the collision.
His first thought was to find Helen Newsom, who was in stateroom D-47,
forward on the starboard side. Upon reaching the area of her room, he found
her in the passage outside the cabin; she had been awakened by the collision.
Together, the pair went ‘to the very upper deck’, where they found it was
bitterly cold.132
Margaret Brown had returned to her reading after the impact. Then she
heard the occupants of the next room say something about getting up to see
what was going on. Thus, she got up, as well, and looked back out into the
corridor. She saw about a half-dozen stewards and an officer, ‘forcing an
auger through a hole in the floor, while treating the whole thing with levity’.
When she returned to her book a second time, she noticed that her curtains
were moving, apparently because the ship was again under way, but at
reduced speed.133
Although the appearance up on deck led one to believe that everything
was all right, and that the accident had been minor, to seasoned crewmembers
there were ominous signs of trouble. Lamp Trimmer Hemming was asleep
when the accident occurred. Leaving his quarters, he put his head out a
porthole and saw nothing amiss, but then he heard a loud hissing noise.
Investigating, he bumped into Storekeeper Frank Prentice. Curious to see
if the ship was taking on water, they took the hatch off the Storeroom under the
Forecastle head, which was located directly over the Forepeak Tank. Then
they went right down to the top of the tank, which was located on the Orlop
Deck.
134 At the very bottom of the store room, there was no indication of
water or damage. Still hearing the hissing, Hemming and Prentice proceeded
up to the Forecastle head, just forward of the anchor crane. By that time, it
was nearly 11:45 p.m., and they found air hissing out of the vent pipe with
considerable force, indicating that the Peak Tank was flooding rapidly.
Just then, Boatswain’s Mate Albert Haines and Chief Officer Wilde came
along. Wilde heard the hissing noise, as well, and asked: ‘What is that,
Hemming?’
Hemming replied: ‘The air is escaping from the Forepeak Tank. She must
be making water there, but the storeroom is quite dry.’
Wilde replied, ‘All right,’ and quickly proceeded on his way.
Hemming and Prentice then returned to their bunks, obviously unalarmed.
There was no other evidence of damage, to their knowledge; if the Forepeak
tank was flooding, it only had a capacity of 190 tons of water – hardly enough
to endanger the ship’s safety. Meanwhile, Haines headed off to do some more
investigating.
135
Second Officer Lightoller had just been drifting off to sleep in his port
side cabin when he felt the collision. Although it didn’t feel overtly serious,
he waited about two or three minutes, and then rose and decided to have a
quick look around; he didn’t bother to dress at all. He first went out onto the
port side of the Boat Deck, and moved forward a few feet until he could see
the Bridge clearly. He observed First Officer Murdoch on the port wing.
136
Lightoller crossed to the rail and saw that the ship was proceeding ahead
slowly again, at ‘perhaps six knots’.
137
 Third Officer Pitman – who had turned
out of his cabin right after Lightoller – joined the Second Officer briefly on
the deck. The two men conferred on what had happened. There wasn’t much
to go on, however … Clearly it seemed that they had struck something, but
there was nothing in sight … ice was the prime candidate for the trouble, at
least in Lightoller’s mind. However, nothing seemed to be seriously wrong.
So the two men went back inside where it was warm.
Pitman immediately retired to his cabin, and Lightoller’s thinking was the
same; he reasoned that he should be where everyone expected him to be if
they needed to find him. Before he actually returned to his cabin, however, he
crossed over to the starboard side of the Officers’ Quarters, opened the door
that led back out onto the starboard Boat Deck, and looked forward toward
the Bridge. He could discern Captain Smith on the wing on that side, but he
did not see the iceberg. Then Lightoller returned to his room.
138
Still at the helm, Quartermaster Hichens watched as the Captain came
back into the Wheelhouse and looked at the inclinometer in front of the
compass. Approximately five minutes had elapsed since the collision, and the
ship already had a 5° list to starboard.139 Following this observation, Captain
Smith rang ‘Stop’ on the telegraph, Titanic’s engines stopped for the last time,
and the ship began slowing its forward momentum.
Just about then, Bruce Ismay arrived on the Bridge and asked the Captain
what had happened. Smith told him that they had struck ice. White Star’s
Chairman asked whether the Captain believed the damage was serious.
Although he apparently had not yet received a full damage report, Smith had
seen enough to reply that ‘he thought it was’. Ismay turned to leave the Bridge
and head back below to his room ...
140
With the Titanic’s engines stopped, she had drifted to a final halt with her
bow facing north-northwest.
141 Since steam was no longer feeding into the
engines, the pressure in the ship’s boilers began to rise quickly. Soon it had
reached safety tolerances, and automatic safety valves, which were fitted to
each boiler, began to lift to vent the steam and reduce the pressure. This
excess steam was carried up the steam escape pipes on the forward and aft
ends of the funnels, where it began to ‘blow off’ with a tremendous racket.
142
Second Officer Charles Lightoller recalled:
The ship had been running under a big head of steam, therefore the
instant the engines were stopped the steam started roaring off at all
eight exhausts, kicking up a row that would have dwarfed the row of a
thousand railway engines thundering through a culvert.
143
This thunderous roar could be heard all throughout the ship. In their stateroom,
Elizabeth and Mary Lines heard the collision, and they knew that something
was wrong – just not what. Shortly after the collision, the pair heard ‘a
tremendous noise of escaping steam’. A ‘few seconds’ passed, while they
wondered what was wrong, but they did not think there was any danger. Just
then, their steward came by and said to them: ‘Captain’s orders: stay in your
stateroom and don’t panic.’ Then he disappeared, and the two women
obediently settled in to wait.
144
William Sloper and the stewards who had rushed out onto the Promenade
Deck had managed to catch a glimpse of the iceberg. It was so cold on deck,
however, that they soon returned to the companionway, where it was warmer.
By that point the engines had stopped, and a number of people began to show
up, many of them obviously concerned, and most of them not dressed. Sloper
watched as the stewards reassured them that nothing serious was wrong. He
was not entirely sure of that, however, so he went down to his room to get
some warmer clothes on.
145
Charlotte and Harvey Collyer had felt the collision in their Second Class
cabin. They also had heard the engines stop. A few minutes later, they heard
the engines re-start, but after only a short bit, they stopped again. Neither of
them were alarmed, assuming it was a minor mishap in the Engine Room. At
first, Harvey was not inclined to go on deck and investigate, but eventually he
decided to do so. Charlotte lay back in her berth with her daughter, 8-year-old
Marjorie.
146
By this time, Lookout Hogg had returned to his quarters, having already
gone out onto the Well Deck to see what had happened. He asked his mate,
Lookout Alfred Evans, what time it was. Evans replied: ‘It is a quarter to 12.
We will get dressed and get ready to go on the lookout.’ The two men started
to get ready. Apparently, the idea was to head up to the Crow’s Nest early, as
their sleep had already been disturbed.147 They also told Lookout George
Symons – who had previously refused to get up and investigate like everyone
else had – that he should get out of bed and start getting dressed. Symons,
perhaps begrudgingly, did so.148
In contrast to the confusion and sense of urgency already unfolding in the
bowels of the ship and among some members of the crew on deck, many of the
First Class passengers had not even felt the impact. Arthur Ryerson slept right
through the collision. His wife Emily had been awake and noticed the engines
stop, but she had not even felt a jar as the ship ground along the iceberg. Not
wanting to wake Arthur, she rang the steward to see what had happened. When
Bedroom Steward Walter Bishop came to the door, he told Emily: ‘There is
talk of an iceberg ma’am, and they have stopped, not to run into it.’ She asked
Bishop to keep her informed if there were any orders.
149
Lady Duff Gordon had previously felt the engines stop, and ‘immediately
there was the frightful noise of escaping steam’. Then she heard people …
… running along the [Promenade] deck outside my cabin, but they
were laughing and gay. One said to another: ‘We must have hit an
iceberg. There is ice on the deck.’
At this, Lucy crossed the passageway to her husband’s cabin. He was still
asleep, not having heard the collision, and was ‘very annoyed’ at being
awakened. ‘Don’t be so ridiculous,’ he told her. ‘Even if we have grazed an
iceberg it can’t do any serious damage with all these water-tight
compartments. The worst that can happen is that it will slow us down. Go
back to bed and don’t worry.’ Lucy was not convinced, however. She went
and …
… looked over the side of the boat. I could see nothing unusual, and it
was pitch black. Several people hurried up on deck, but on hearing
from the ship’s officers that it was ‘nothing but temporary trouble’ they
went quietly back to bed.150
Everything on deck appeared quite normal, and Lady Duff Gordon started
back for her stateroom. However, she was still uneasy about their situation.
Colonel Archibald Gracie had been sound asleep at the time of the
collision. He woke up and turned on the light in his cabin. He had been
awakened by a slight jar, and it also seemed to him that the engines stopped.
Almost immediately after that, he also ‘heard the blowing off of steam’.
Gracie got up and looked out into the companionway, but didn’t see anyone
there. Still, he ‘did not like the sound of it’, and decided to dress.
151
Meanwhile, Jack Thayer was more curious than alarmed. ‘Almost
instantaneously’ after the collision, he had heard and felt the ship’s engines
stop. Then he heard the ‘distant noise of running feet and muffled voices, as
several people hurried through the passageway.’ Next he heard and felt that
the engines had re-started, but slowly … ‘not with the bright vibration to
which we were accustomed, but as though they were tired. After very few
revolutions they again stopped.’
This was all irresistible to a 17-year-old … Something had happened –
serious, no, he thought … but definitely exciting. Jack threw an overcoat over
his pajamas and put slippers on. He called over to his parents ‘that “I was
going up on deck to see the fun.” ’ He heard his father say that he was going to
dress and join him in a minute. Then Jack was gone …152
Eleanor Cassebeer and Harry Anderson had remained on the forward end
of the A Deck Promenade after receiving early reassurances from Thomas
Andrews. They watched as Steerage passengers came out onto the Well Deck
to play with the ice. Eleanor remembered a few passengers from First Class
calling down to them, and asking for a bit of it. The Steerage passengers
joined the fun and threw a few snowballs up in response. Just then, steam
began roaring out of the funnels, creating a deafening racket and making
conversation nearly impossible. Eventually, Eleanor and Harry Anderson
moved inside, apparently to the forward Entrance Foyer on A Deck. A number
of other people had begun to gather there, as well. They sat down and waited
for further developments.
153
In stateroom C-77, the Countess of Rothes and her cousin, Gladys Cherry,
had been awakened by a bang and the stopping of the engines. Then they began
to hear steam being blown off from far above. They could also hear some
people walking up and down the corridor outside. The two ladies got up and
found a steward nearby. He told them that the ship had struck an iceberg. The
two ladies were a bit worried, so they put on their dressing gowns, and then
donned fur coats. Then they went up on deck.
154
Helen Ostby met her father, Engelhart Ostby, in the corridor between their
B Deck staterooms. She remembered that everything was as quiet as ‘when a
train stops in a station and you can hear everyone’s voice’. She remembered
seeing a few ‘anxious looking faces’, and that people looked rather
outlandish, having thrown on anything they could think of over their
nightclothes. Together, the father and daughter headed out on deck. They
wandered around the corridors, and soon learned that the ship had hit an
iceberg. Even so, no one knew exactly how much damage had been done, and
no one thought it was really anything serious.
155
May Futrelle was concerned by the collision, but she was more concerned
by a rush of feet on the decks as people got up to investigate what had
happened. She shook her husband Jacques and woke him up. He got up and
peeked out the door, then walked into the passageway and came back. His
conclusion was that the ship had just changed course for some reason, and that
they should go back to bed.156
In Second Class, Dagmar Brhyl heard a knock on the door of her cabin. It
was her fiancé Ingvar Enander; he called through the door: ‘Get up, Dagmar.
The ship has hit something.’ Dagmar got up and put a skirt and coat on. Then
they hurried up to the deck together. Soon, however, they encountered
‘officers’ who told them: ‘Get back, there is no danger; you go to your
cabins.’ Dagmar went back to her room, undressed, and got back into bed.157
Second Class passenger Imanita Shelley rang for her steward multiple
times. Finally, a different steward came to the door. She asked him what was
wrong, and he replied: ‘Nothing, madam. We had a slight collision, but it is
all right now and the orders are for you to return to your beds and rest
content.’ He then ‘went on down the line delivering the same message’ to a
number of others.
158
In Third Class, Percival and Florence Thorneycroft had felt the collision,
but didn’t think much of it. Not long after, however, a young man they knew
knocked on their door, and told them that ‘the boat had run into a berg’. Even
so, ‘no one thought it was anything serious’, and there were no indications to
the contrary from the officers.
159
Mess Steward Cecil Fitzpatrick had decided to get up and find out why
the engines had stopped. He was told that the ship had struck an iceberg and
that she was not seriously damaged. So Fitzpatrick returned to his berth and
settled in to go back to sleep.160
Assistant Saloon Steward Walter Nichols remembered that some of the
other stewards in his E Deck quarters didn’t want to get up and see what had
happened after the collision. Nichols, however, simply could not suppress his
curiosity. He put his coat on and ‘took a run out to look’. He apparently used
the crew’s working staircase which was just forward of the Reciprocating
Engine Room. He remembered that it ‘was all black outside’ and that he
‘couldn’t see anything except that there was some ice on the deck forward.
Half of the men went back to bed. Nobody believed anything could be wrong.
They had such faith in the ship. Everybody believed in her.’161
Charles and Annie Stengel had dressed quickly after the collision. Charles
had put on only what clothes he could grab, while his wife put on her kimono,
and the two had gone up ‘to the top deck and walked around there. There were
not many people around there.’162
Bruce Ismay was proceeding from the Bridge down toward his suite of
rooms on B Deck. He met Chief Engineer Joseph Bell at the top of the
staircase, and asked him if he believed the ship was seriously damaged. Bell
told him ‘he thought the damage was serious, but that he hoped the pumps
would be able to control the water.’ Hearing this news, Ismay returned to his
room briefly.
163
Elsewhere, Major Arthur Peuchen left the forward rail on A Deck and
went to see his friend, Hugo Ross, ‘to tell him that it was not serious; that we
had only struck an iceberg.’ He went to try to call on his other friend, Harry
Molson, to convey the same message. He found that Molson had already left
his stateroom.
164
By this time, Lady Duff Gordon had returned to her stateroom on A Deck
from her excursion to investigate the situation. She had found no apparent
reason for concern. It was only after she had felt the ship’s engines stop, and
the sound of rushing steam, that she felt cause for alarm. ‘Something in the
cessation of this busy, homely sound filled me with panic,’ she recalled.165
Forward, Boatswain’s Mate Albert Haines had discovered that the
Forepeak Tank was flooding. He then moved aft, and ‘went down to look’ at
the No. 1 Hold. He found the tarpaulin stretched out over the hatch, but was
surprised by what he saw happening to it. Water was entering the No. 1 hold
so fast that the tarpaulin ‘was bellying up, raising’, as the air escaped. Haines
started to head for the Bridge to report this rather disturbing find.166
Seaman Edward Buley was on duty at the time of the collision, and he, too
looked down the No. 1 Hatch after hearing water coming in at the bottom. He
also remembered that the tarp was ‘bending’ up from ‘the pressure of air
underneath’.
167
Back in Boiler Room No. 6, Fireman George Beauchamp was still
working to draw the fires in his area. Because of the list to starboard, which
the ship had developed almost immediately after the collision, Beauchamp’s
work on the port side was on the high, and therefore the more shallowlyflooded, side of the room. As the water continued to rise, he stuck to his post
until someone shouted ‘that will do’. Beauchamp estimated that this took
place about a quarter of an hour after the collision. Accordingly, he headed up
the escape ladder into the working alleyway – or Scotland Road, as it was
frequently referred to – and then proceeded to the Boat Deck.
168
After darting aft to Boiler Room No. 5 to escape incoming seawater,
Leading Fireman Fred Barrett heard Second Engineer John Hesketh give the
order, ‘All hands stand by your stations.’ For Barrett, this meant returning to
Boiler Room No. 6. With Junior Assistant Second Engineer Jonathan
Shepherd, Barrett went up the escape ladder in No. 5, forward, and then back
down the ladder into No. 6. They had to take this laborious route because the
watertight door in between the compartments was closed. When they went
down the ladder into No. 6, they found that there was now eight feet of water
on the starboard side of the compartment. In the ten minutes that had elapsed
since they left, the water level had risen six feet there.
Having no chance to do anything, Barrett and Shepherd left the flooding
compartment and headed back to Boiler Room No. 5. There, they found
Senior Assistant Second Engineer Bert Wilson and Junior Assistant Second
Engineer Herbert Harvey attending to the pumps. Water was pouring into the
forward, starboard side coal bunker of No. 5 from a seam in the hull located
two feet above the deck plates; even so, the stokehold itself was completely
dry. Since the damage to Boiler Room No. 5 was less significant than in No.
6, the pumps were keeping up with the flooding.
169
After failing to see any damage during his trip below, Fourth Officer
Boxhall emerged onto the forward Well Deck again, eager to return to the
Bridge with his bit of good news. When he came back out into the cold night
air, he saw a man holding a piece of ice ‘about as large as a small basin’.
Boxhall took it from the man’s hand and walked across the deck to see where
he had gotten it. He found that there was ‘just a little ice … covering a space
of about three or four feet from the bulwarks’, along the Well Deck. It was not
really a lot, just some ‘small stuff’.
170
At around 11:50 a.m., the Fourth Officer arrived back on the Bridge. He
reported that he had seen no damage whatsoever. With the delivery of this
report, however, the good news had ended for Captain Smith. The Captain
seemed unconvinced by Boxhall’s preliminary findings. A ‘couple of minutes’
after he had arrived to make his report, the Captain told Boxhall: ‘Go down
and find the carpenter and get him to sound the ship.’171 Apparently,
Quartermaster Olliver had not yet returned from his own search for the
carpenter.
Junior Assistant Second Engineer Jonathan Shepherd.
Junior Assistant Second Engineer Herbert Harvey.
The Forecastle and forward Well Deck of the Olympic in New York. The Crow’s Nest is visible on
the foremast. During the collision, ice fell down onto the starboard side of Titanic’s Well Deck, just
visible on the extreme right of the photo of her sister.
Very shortly after Boxhall left to carry out this order, Olliver arrived back
on the Bridge; he had delivered Smith’s earlier order to the Carpenter for him
to take a draft of the water. No sooner had Olliver gotten there, however, than
Captain Smith handed him a folded-up note for Chief Engineer Joseph Bell,
with orders for him to deliver the message right away. Olliver proceeded
below once again …172
Albert Dick and his wife Vera had gone on deck after the collision, and
had seen the berg. They also ran into Thomas Andrews very shortly after the
collision:
He was on hand at once and said that he was going below to
investigate. We begged him not to go, but he insisted, saying he knew
the ship as no one else did and that he might be able to allay the fears
of the passengers. He went.
With the departure of Andrews, the Dicks suddenly felt uncertain. Andrews
was such a reassuring figure … All they could do was to wait for further
information.
173
Saloon Steward James Johnstone was stationed as the night watchman in
the First Class Dining Saloon.
174 His quiet shift had been interrupted by the
slight jar of the collision. Shortly after, Greaser Alfred White came up asking
for some hot water. Johnstone did not know White, but sent him below to find
out what was going on. When White returned, he said that things looked ‘a bit
hot’.
175
Around 11:50 a.m., Johnstone walked forward to the Grand Staircase in
the Reception Room. He was just in time to see Thomas Andrews race down
the working stairs to E Deck and turn aft, apparently heading toward the
Engine Room.
176 A small knot of First Class ladies had gathered by the
staircase, and they spotted Andrews as he went by; since he was pretty wellknown among many of the First Class passengers, they looked to him for
information and reassurance as he passed. Johnstone overheard Andrews
telling the ladies, ‘Be easy, it will be all right.’ Johnstone piped in and also
inquired, to which Andrews replied: ‘All right.’ Then he hurried off to dig
into his inspection. Johnstone felt quite reassured by Andrews’ statements.
177
Down below, in the lowest crew areas of the ship, the damage was
beginning to show, even in sections that had not immediately been inundated
with water, as Boiler Room No. 6 had been. More and more members of the
crew began to discover that water was entering different areas of the bow,
and at an alarming rate. Just one example of this came as the five postal clerks
were hard at work in the Post Office. This facility was set up with a sorting
room on G Deck, and a hold for the mail just below on the Orlop Deck.
Within ten minutes of the collision, water began entering the Orlop Deck
level, and the postal clerks desperately began lugging the sacks of mail up the
stairs to the upper level to escape the rising water. Hardly had this been
accomplished when the water began to climb the staircase toward G Deck.
Saloon Steward James Johnstone.
Bedroom Steward Henry Etches was still asleep in his berth in the
Steward’s Quarters, amidships on the port side of E Deck. He was awakened
‘by something’, but he didn’t know what it was. A few minutes after the
collision – he estimated that the time was then ‘between 25 minutes and 20
minutes to 12’ – Etches called down to his mate in the berth below: ‘What
time is it that they are going to call us next?’
Etches’ neighbor steward replied: ‘I don’t know.’ So Etches decided to go
back to sleep again. Just then, there came a loud shout from their Boatswain –
probably Alfred Nichols – out in the hall: ‘Close water-tight bulkheads!’
Etches got up and looked out into the companionway, noticing that the
Boatswain and another seaman were running from fore to aft.
178
About this time, after being awakened by the collision and hearing that the
Titanic had hit an iceberg, Saloon Steward Alexander Littlejohn had gone up
on deck, and saw about ‘two feet’ of ice lying in the scuppers on the starboard
side of the forward Well Deck. Unalarmed, he returned below deck. Once
there, he saw that the ‘carpenters sounding the forward well’; he ‘noticed
there was a quantity of water in it as the line was pulled up’. Littlejohn went
back to his room and told his fellow stewards that they might be called on
shortly to assist the passengers. Still, he did not expect they would have to
leave the ship. As he said, ‘we all thought she was unsinkable.’179
In the First Class Smoking Room, Alfred Nourney had continued to play
cards with Henry Blank and William Greenfield for a few minutes after the
collision. But something, ‘perhaps instinct’, he thought, made Nourney decide
to investigate the situation. The three men left the Smoking Room together, and
‘went on deck to meet a few men and women, also making inquiries’. Nourney
then walked forward on the Promenade Deck, and saw ice on the Well Deck
below. ‘There were huge chunks on the hatches,’ he recalled.180
Honeymooning couple John and Nelle Snyder were in their B Deck cabin
when the collision came. Nelle was concerned, and asked her husband to go
up on deck to investigate. John wanted to go back to sleep, but his bride
insisted; the new husband acquiesced and ‘dressed hurriedly.’ On his way out
on deck, he ran across ‘some of the crew’, and he asked them what had
happened. They informed him that the ship had ‘scraped against an iceberg’.
Fact-finding mission apparently accomplished, John returned to their
stateroom. Yet Nelle was still nervous, and told him that ‘he had better go on
deck and make sure’ of their safety.
181
Meanwhile, Karl Behr and Helen Newsom had gone on deck. In addition
to the cold, they found that the ship was listing to starboard, the side where
Behr believed the collision had occurred. This was enough to tell Behr that
she was ‘dangerously injured’, although he had no thought that the ship was
actually ‘doomed’ at that point. They began to head below to the stateroom of
Helen’s parents, Richard and Sarah Beckwith.
182
William and Alice Silvey had dressed after the collision and the stopping
of the engines, and then they headed up on deck. When they left their E Deck
cabin, there seemed to be a little confusion, with other passengers poking their
noses out into the hall to see what had happened. However, no one was
expressing fear. When the Silveys made it up on the deck, they found nothing
more than ‘a beautiful night, clear, still and cold. The water was like glass.’
Mrs. Silvey saw no icebergs, but one of their friends, who had been on deck
at the time of the collision, told them that the berg passed ‘so close that he
could have touched it.’ The couple walked around the deck, and noticed that
‘the ship had listed somewhat’, but still no one thought there was any serious
danger. ‘The officers’ told them to return to their cabin and put on some very
warm clothing, so they headed back down to their room.
183
About ‘five or ten minutes’ after the collision and the stopping of the
engines, Elmer Taylor said to his wife: ‘I think I will go on deck, nose about
and see if I can be of any assistance.’ Then he leisurely put on the clothes he
intended to wear the next day, picked up a cigar from the table, lit it, and left
the cabin.
184
Margaret Swift and Dr Alice Leader were still in their cabin. They had
felt the crash, but didn’t think it was serious, as the ship had ‘stood up well’
after the collision. After a while, however, they got up, each threw a wrapper
over herself, and they went out to investigate. The two ladies were ‘assured
that there was no danger’, however.
185
Emma Bucknell and her maid Albina Bazzani had seen the iceberg pass
the window of their stateroom on D Deck. Without waiting for further
information, Emma dressed partially, and then she opened her cabin door. The
passageway from which the cabin was accessed ran down to the outboard
side of the ship on the starboard side. There was a porthole at the end, and
Emma discovered that there were pieces of ice on the floor which had ‘been
forced through’ the ‘broken port hole’.
At about that time, a man who seemed to be one of the stewards came
through saying ‘that there was no danger as a result of the collision’.
However, Emma noticed that ‘while his voice was calm and he delivered his
message easily, his face belied the confidence of his words, expressing the
fear he had in his mind.’
Emma was not convinced, and returned to her cabin to dress warmly. She
told her maid to do the same. She ‘anticipated that there would come greater
difficulties’, and fully intended to be prepared for anything.
186
First Class passenger Martha Stephenson, in stateroom D-20, had
remained in her cabin. Shortly after the impact, a steward came in to close the
open porthole. When asked, the steward said it was too cold to get up, that it
was nothing at all, and that she should go back to bed. Another First Class
passenger, Martha Stone, was also awakened by the crash, but got up lightly
dressed and went into the corridor with other passengers. A nearby ship’s
officer told her there was no danger, and to go back to bed and sleep.187
Down in Second Class, the same thing was happening. Twelve-year-old
Ruth Becker’s mother Nellie got up and asked a steward what the matter was.
He said, ‘Nothing’, and advised that they should go back to bed. Marie
Jerwan, sharing a cabin with Mrs Ada Ball, went on deck where an officer
told her that ‘there was no danger, that one could go back to bed.’ Alice
Phillips heard the crash and felt that the engines stopped. She rang up her
steward to find out what was going on, but was told it was nothing serious and
to go back to sleep. Edwina Troutt got as far as the corridor before being told
to go back to bed, since they had ‘only’ struck an iceberg. Another Second
Class passenger, Ellen Wolcroft, rooming with Clear Cameron, remained in
her cabin, but a steward came down to tell them: ‘Go back to your beds. No
danger!’
188
Shortly after Harvey Collyer had gone up to investigate the situation, he
returned to his Second Class cabin. There he told his wife Charlotte that they
had struck an iceberg, but that an officer had told him there was no danger.
189
Third Class passenger Amy Stanley had gotten out of bed, thrown a coat
on, and gone up on deck to investigate what had happened. Her roommates
Elizabeth Dowdell and little Virginia Emanuel stayed behind, reassured by a
steward in the hall outside their cabin that nothing was wrong. On deck, Amy
encountered another steward, and asked him what was the matter. The steward
told her it was only that the engines had stopped, and he ordered her and other
women who were nearby back to bed.190
During the minutes directly following the collision – in First, Second, and
Third Classes, both above and below deck – not only were the passengers
being assured nothing serious had happened, but they were also being told to
go back to their staterooms, and to go back to sleep. It is possible that for
some of those who went back to sleep – particularly those in Third Class
sections of the ship forward – this delay subsequently allowed them to
become trapped by incoming water, or without enough time to save
themselves.
Eugene Daly had returned to his cabin for a little while after being told
everything was OK. Soon, though, he put on his lifebelt and stepped out into
the passage, which was already ‘thronged with excited men and women’. The
assurances of the crew calmed the crowd, and Daly became the subject of
laughter, as he was the only one who was wearing a lifebelt. Embarrassed, he
returned to his cabin, pulled his overcoat on over his lifebelt, and shoved his
rosary beads, watch, and some coins into his pocket.
191 Daly then proceeded
up on deck, and found some of the stewards joking around with each other and
smoking cigarettes, apparently unalarmed. This did little to calm his nerves,
so he quickly returned below with the intention of arousing Maggie Daly, and
Bertha Mulvihill.
192
Third Class passenger August Wennerström.
Third Class passengers August Wennerström and Gunnar Isidor Tenglin
were also awakened by the collision. They had returned early from the party
in the General Room that night. Both men were Swedes traveling to America
from their homeland, and shared a cabin during the voyage. Carl Jansson had
joined them on the voyage, although he was berthed in a separate cabin. A
steward knocked on the door and told them to get up and dress, but assured
them that there was no danger. The two men grabbed their things and headed
aft to the Third Class Smoking Room. Tenglin left so quickly that he did not
even grab his shoes.
193
After the collision, Bertha Chambers had asked her husband to find out
what had happened, as she was ‘rather alarmed’; Norman, on the other hand,
had concluded that ‘something had gone wrong with the engines on the
starboard side’, and would gladly have stayed in bed reading. However, to
please his wife, he ‘threw on sufficient clothes’ and an overcoat, and leisurely
went up to A Deck, emerging on the starboard side. He only noticed ‘an
unusual coldness of the air’. Looking over the side, he was unable to see
anything in any direction, and returned to his cabin. He found that his wife had
already dressed completely and warmly. Then he and Bertha started out
together for a more thorough investigation.
194
Sidney Collett emerged on the deck to find that ‘steam was blowing with a
deafening noise.’ He heard quickly that the ship had struck an iceberg, but he
could not see it himself. Collett turned and headed down again after being
ordered by officers ‘to get the ladies’.
195
Just then, young Jack Thayer was rushing up to the deck on the port
side.
196 He could see nothing from there, however. So he ‘then went forward
to the bow’ on A Deck, eventually reaching the bulwark rail overlooking the
Forecastle and Well Deck.
197 He could see the ice below on the Well Deck,
but as he had just come out of the ship’s brightly lit interior, he could not see
very far ahead. Then he returned to his cabin on C Deck.
198
By then, Colonel Archibald Gracie had dressed and left his cabin on C
Deck. He ascended to the Boat Deck, emerging on the port side by the First
Class Entrance. There, he found only one other ‘young lad, seemingly bent on
the same quest as myself’.
199 Gracie found that it was a ‘beautiful night,
cloudless, and the stars shining brightly’. It was very cold, but there was no
indication of what might have hit them; Gracie’s first conclusion was that it
was a small boat. Whatever it was, however, it wasn’t visible from the port
side.
Gracie wasn’t satisfied, so he set off aft. When he ran up against the
railing designating the end of the First Class deck, he nimbly leapt over it,
completely disregarding the ‘not allowed’ notice sign. He looked around to
see if he had been caught entering Second Class areas, but found no sign of
any officers nearby to reprimand him. So he completed his circuit on the deck,
coming back up the starboard side, all without finding anything more exciting
than a middle-aged couple out for a stroll on the Second Class Boat Deck. He
decided to head down to the port side of the Promenade Deck next. There, he
looked over the railing to see if he could tell whether the ship was on an even
keel or not, but he could not tell anything that way. So far, it had been a
thoroughly disappointing investigation.
200
Before Fourth Officer Boxhall could get very far on his second trip below
deck, he ran into Carpenter Hutchinson, who said that the ship was making
water fast. Boxhall told Hutchinson to report it to the Bridge, and as
Hutchinson proceeded topside to inform the Captain, Boxhall continued
below. Next Boxhall encountered British Postal Clerk John Smith, who
reported that the Mail Room was flooding.
201 Boxhall sent Smith along to
report this to the Bridge as well, and then the Fourth Officer headed for the
Mail Room to see this for himself. When he got there, sometime around 11:52
a.m., Boxhall could actually hear the water rushing in, and saw bags of mail
floating about on the surface. The water was now within two feet of G
Deck.
202
Earlier, First Class passengers Albert and Vera Dick had seen Andrews
go below, and following that, they ‘did not know what to do or which way to
turn’. Soon, they saw the Captain, and recalled that he ‘was everywhere doing
his best to calm the rising tide of fear’, apparently as he headed below. The
Dicks were not particularly reassured, however, and were waiting for further
word from Andrews.
203
Back in the First Class Reception Room, just minutes after Thomas
Andrews passed through on his way below, Steward Johnstone and Saloon
Steward Mackay saw Captain Smith proceed down the same working
staircase to E Deck, presumably towards Chief Engineer Bell’s room.
Carpenter Hutchinson had just informed Smith on the Bridge that Cargo Holds
1, 2 and 3 were all flooding, and the Captain was likely going below to
personally check in with Bell, Thomas Andrews, or both.
204
Down on E Deck, Steward Theissinger had seen a fireman who was
reporting that there was flooding forward; he had also heard an order to close
the watertight doors. ‘Just after’ that, Theissinger passed Captain Smith. The
Steward assumed, because of where the Captain was coming from, that Smith
had been ‘in a portion of the ship near the main salon’, probably a reference
to the Dining Saloon. Although Theissinger had not been alarmed by the
collision, he headed forward along E Deck, since most of the cabins in his
care were on that deck, near the aft-most passenger accommodations on the
starboard side.
205
At that time, in the Engine Room, a call came down for all of the stokers
to be sent up on deck. Then the electric lights went out in the stokeholds,
impeding the efforts of crewmembers who were fighting to control the
flooding. Second Engineer Hesketh ordered Leading Fireman Barrett to go get
lamps for Boiler Room No. 5.206
Greaser Thomas Ranger had remained at his station after the collision,
repairing a fan, for about fifteen minutes. Then Chief Electrician Peter Sloan
came back up and ordered him to go and stop all the electrical fans, starting
with the ones for the stokeholds. It was an enormous task, and it took Ranger
quite some time.
207
Up on the Bridge, Boatswain’s Mate Haines arrived and found Chief
Officer Wilde, whom he had seen just a few minutes before at the exhaust vent
for the Forepeak Tank. Haines reported to the Chief Officer that he had seen
evidence of flooding in the No. 1 hold. Wilde told him to get his men up, and
then to get the boats out. Haines hurried back down to awaken his hands.
208
Back in First Class, Isaac Frauenthal had dressed after the collision, and
then he left his cabin, D-40, which was all the way forward on that deck. He
proceeded aft, then up the stairs to C Deck, and aft along the port corridor to
just forward of the Aft Grand Staircase and Entrance. His brother and sisterin-law’s room was there on the port side, cabin C-88.209 When he arrived,
Isaac Frauenthal ‘rapped on the door’, and his ‘brother answered sleepily’.
Isaac told Henry that ‘he had better get up’. Henry was unconvinced, and said
that ‘he guessed he wouldn’t’ get up, and that ‘any story about the ship being
ready to sink was all nonsense’. Henry Frauenthal seems to have been in quite
a sleep-induced fog, and later did not even remember this visit by Isaac.
Meanwhile, to Isaac, it was clear that Henry was going nowhere soon.
Still uncertain about the ship’s safety, Isaac decided to try to find out more …
210
Herbert and Carrie Chaffee were in their cabin on E Deck when the
collision came. After trying the lights and finding the ship’s electricity was
still on, they heard movement in the hallway. The daughter of an
Englishwoman, who was in the cabin across the hall, was leaving to go up on
deck. The Chaffees waited until she returned, and she informed them that the
passengers were to get on deck.
211
‘Oh, that’s nothing to get excited about,’ Mr Chaffee said. ‘It’s probably a
precautionary measure, in case anything has happened.’ The couple began to
dress, but did so at a rather leisurely pace. Opening his trunk, Herbert took out
and then donned a heavy suit. Carrie dressed fully, and when they left their
cabin, she even remembered to take a small grip with her.
212
Frederick and Jane Hoyt had left their C Deck cabin very quickly after the
collision; they remained on deck for some time, even though Jane had
followed her husband up ‘wearing only a light dressing gown’. While they
were on deck, the couple bumped into their friend, Ship’s Surgeon Dr William
O’Loughlin. Frederick asked O’Loughlin if anything serious had happened.
O’Loughlin replied that he didn’t know, and moved on.
213
Meanwhile, Lucy Duff Gordon had been uneasy since the collision. She
had already tried to wake her husband once, without success. However, with
the stopping of the engines, she was nearly panic-stricken, and wanted her
husband go on deck and make a proper investigation of the situation. She
‘rushed’ from her cabin, A-20, and went across the passageway to her
husband’s cabin, A-16. She hurried in to the cabin and over to the bed.
Shaking Sir Cosmo’s still-sleeping form, she cried: ‘I beg you to go up on
deck and see what has happened.’ Sir Cosmo got up out of bed, ‘rather
unwillingly’, and headed out on deck.
214
Third Class passenger Emily Badman and the girls in her cabin had felt
the collision. However, they had been unable to see anything out of the
porthole of their forward, starboard-side cabin. When Miss Badman – who
had just turned eighteen on Sunday – started out into the corridor just outside
their room, she saw that it was ‘filled with foreigners going up on deck
loaded with luggage’. She went on one of the upper decks, where she met a
young man from Kent, England, with whom she had become acquainted during
the voyage. He told her to ‘go back down and put on heavier clothing’.
Although she did not want to, she returned below, also thinking to put on a
lifebelt.
215
Elsewhere, Bedroom Steward Alfred Theissinger stuck his nose out into
the corridor in time to see a fireman running past ‘carrying a bag of clothing’.
As the man rushed by, he shouted: ‘There is water forward!’ Just then
someone else shouted out: ‘All watertight doors shut!’
216
Assistant Saloon Steward Nichols thought it so ‘bitter cold’ on deck that
he ‘was glad enough’ to get back to his quarters, which were not far forward
of the entrance to the Engine Room. Within a few minutes of the collision, he
could hear ‘the engineers passing along the order to close the watertight
doors. One man would tell it to the next and he would pass it on to someone
else.’ There was little for Nichols to do about this, though, so he ‘stayed up
and sat around talking with some of the fellows’ for what he thought was
‘three-quarters of an hour after the collision’.
217
Anna Sjöblom was in a Third Class cabin near the ship’s bow. She
remembered that after the collision, she had gotten up and started to put on
some clothes. However, water ‘began coming up where I was in a short time’,
and she was literally chased from her cabin by it. She hurried above deck.
218
Jack Thayer returned to his cabin, and he and his parents decided that they
should all head up top together to obtain further information on the situation.
Once they reached the deck, they went over to the starboard side, and noticed
that the ship was listing.
219 Although Jack could not see anything of interest,
his father thought he saw pieces of ice floating in the sea. Neither of them,
however, saw any evidence of a large iceberg. They walked around the decks
for a few minutes, and began to notice the list increasing.
220
Bruce Ismay had met up with Chief Engineer Bell, and Bell had told him
he was hopeful that the pumps could keep ahead of the flooding. Then Ismay
had returned briefly to his stateroom. While in his suite, the Chairman only
took the time to throw a suit over his nightclothes, and then left again, headed
back up toward the Bridge.
221
Colonel Gracie was just coming into the forward First Class Entrance
from the Promenade Deck when he saw Bruce Ismay ‘with a member of the
crew hurrying up the stairway’. He noticed that Ismay …
… wore a day suit, and, as usual, was hatless. He seemed too much
preoccupied to notice anyone. Therefore I did not speak to him, but
regarded his face very closely, perchance to learn from his manner
how serious the accident might be. It occurred to me then that he was
putting on as brave a face as possible so as to cause no alarm to the
passengers.
222
At the foot of the stairway, Gracie saw a number of male passengers, and
went to join them.
Second Class passenger Lawrence Beesley had returned to his cabin to
read after an initial investigation. After a few minutes, however, he could hear
people ‘walking about in the corridors’. Beesley looked out, and saw a
number of people talking to a steward in the hallway, while others were going
upstairs. He listened, and …
… found everyone wanting to know why the engines had stopped. No
doubt many were awakened from sleep by the sudden stopping of a
vibration to which they had become accustomed during the four days
we had been on board. Naturally, with such powerful engines as the
Titanic carried, the vibration was very noticeable all the time, and the
sudden stopping had something the same effect as the stopping of a
loud ticking grandfather’s clock in a room.
Beesley put on a ‘Norfolk jacket and trousers’ and ascended to the Boat Deck.
He walked from one side of the ship to the other. Looking over the edge, he
had at one point noticed ‘a little white line of foam on each side’ of the hull as
the ship sloshed slowly through the water. Initially he assumed that the ship
had resumed her course. Depending on when he arrived on deck, this is
possible; it could also have been the last gasp of forward momentum after the
engines had been stopped by Captain Smith. In either case, Beesley had felt a
little reassured by this, concluding that forward progress was better than
being stopped dead in the middle of the ocean, and he stayed on the deck for
‘some minutes’.
223
Boatswain’s Mate Albert Haines told the men up in the Forecastle Head
that all hands should stand by, adding: ‘You may be wanted at any moment.’
Even though the official order for ‘all hands’ had not yet been given to crew
members of all departments, Chief Officer Wilde had told Haines to get these
men ready, because experienced seamen would be those most needed in order
to prepare the lifeboats and begin to swing them out, if the worse came to the
worst.
224
Lookout George Symons had finally gotten out of his berth and gotten
dressed, after Lookouts Hogg and Evans had suggested that he do so. He heard
the Boatswain’s order to stand by, and headed into the Seamen’s Mess on the
port side of C Deck to see if there was any coffee to be had. While he was
there, he heard a strange sound.
Poking his nose back out of the Mess, he went to the other side of the
passage and looked down the No. 1 Hatch. The tarp was off the wooden
gratings, and he could see down the hatch all the way to G Deck. There,
Symons spotted the source of the strange sound: water was pouring into the
No. 1 Hold ‘in a pretty good rush’. The water was already washing around the
hatch coamings on G Deck, and it looked to be coming from the forward
starboard side, in his estimation.
225
At 11:55 a.m., Steward Johnstone watched Thomas Andrews come back
up to D Deck; Johnstone believed that the ship’s designer had already been to
the Engine Room. Andrews moved forward before heading down another set
of stairs toward the Mail Room. Johnstone waited for ‘a minute’, and then his
curiosity got the better of him and he followed Andrews down. From E Deck,
forward, he could look down the stairs straight through to G Deck. There he
could see that the First Class Baggage Room on G Deck was flooding.
226
Next Johnstone met up with Steward Joseph Wheat, who had come out of
his berth to investigate what was going on. Wheat asked Johnstone, ‘What is
it?’
Johnstone replied: ‘I think it is a bit serious.’ Then Johnstone went to his
berth and got dressed … in his shore suit. Steward Wheat, for his part, looked
down the stairwell to G Deck and saw for himself the water in the Mail
Room. Transfixed, he went down and watched the Mail Room flood …227
At that time, Edwin Kimball was just coming back from a trip up above
decks to find out what had happened. He was returning to his D Deck
stateroom, No. 19, which was near ‘the stairway which went down to the
deck below to the squash courts and mailroom’. Just then, he saw ‘a mail
clerk go down the stairs’, and he apparently followed him down to E Deck.
228
By then, Gladys Cherry and her cousin, the Countess of Rothes, had
arrived on the deck. They went all the way forward on the Promenade Deck,
and found ice collected on the well deck. They could not see any iceberg, but
decided to stay on deck for a bit, talking and watching as things occurred
there.
229
Meanwhile, when Philipp Mock and Emma Schabert met back up after
dressing, they went on deck to investigate the situation. Walking forward,
probably on the Promenade Deck, they could look down on the ice that had
fallen onto the Well Deck. They watched ‘people below moving their
belongings’, probably referring to Third Class passengers coming up from
their water-logged cabins below who were carrying their personal effects.
Still, no one ‘thought very much about’ the collision. Mock thought that the
concept of the situation being serious did not seem to have entered anyone’s
mind. Mock said:
The night was starlight, bright as could be above, the stars shining …,
but was very dark along the water. There was no fog and no ice to be
seen. Some men who were in one of the lounges said that they saw the
berg immediately after the collision, as the ice rushed aft past the
window.
Mock looked out from the Boat Deck on the starboard side, but he could not
discern the outline of an iceberg.
230
May Futrelle was not convinced by her husband’s initial explanation of
the collision; it was obviously something more than a simple change of
course. She was nervous, and when it was clear that people were still up on
deck, Jacques became unsettled, as well. He got up, dressed, and looked out
into the corridor just as their friend Henry Harris did the same thing. Harris
asked Futrelle: ‘What’s happened?’
Futrelle replied: ‘Oh, nothing I guess, but I suppose we’d better get out
and see what’s doing.’ The two men then turned to May, and told her to go in
to sit with Irene Harris in the Harris’ cabin until they got back.
While the men were gone, the two women began to dress themselves. Mrs
Harris was very nervous, and her broken arm was also in a sling, making the
task of donning clothes difficult. May found that she had to cut the sling free
before she could get Irene into a heavy fur coat.
231
Elsewhere, Quartermaster Olliver saw the stokers coming out onto E
Deck as he proceeded below to find Chief Engineer Bell. Entering the Engine
Room, he noticed that the engines were stopped. He found Bell hard at work,
and handed him the Captain’s folded message. Bell looked at the note, and
went back to work. Olliver waited ‘two or three minutes’, and finally, the
Chief asked what he wanted. Olliver stated that he was waiting for a response
to Captain Smith’s message. Bell told him to tell the Captain that ‘he would
get it done as soon as possible.’ Olliver never learned the content of the note
he had delivered, but quickly proceeded up on deck to relay the
information.
232
Meanwhile, Washington Dodge had left his stateroom again, and this time
ventured out onto the Promenade Deck. He found a group of six to eight men
who were ‘gaily conversing’ about the incident. One man mentioned that it
had been due to ice. Another in the group didn’t believe him. In response, the
man said: ‘Go up forward and look down on the poop deck [sic, Well Deck],
and you can see for yourself.’ Hearing this, Dr Dodge went forward, through
the door, and out to the forward bulwark rail overlooking the Well Deck and
Forecastle. Looking down he could see, ‘just within the starboard rail, small
fragments of broken ice, amounting possibly to several cartloads.’
Just then, Dr Dodge saw two stokers standing near him. Stokers were
almost never seen on the Promenade Deck, and the pair had apparently
‘slipped up’ without permission. They asked Dodge: ‘Do you think there is
any danger?’
Dodge replied: ‘If there is any danger it would be due to the vessel having
sprung a leak, and you ought to know more about it than I.’
They replied, in what Dodge thought was an ‘alarmed’ tone: ‘Well, sir, the
water was pouring into the stoke ‘old when we came up, sir.’
This encounter made the San Francisco doctor think that the situation was
a bit more serious than he had before. After this brief chat with the pair of
stokers, Dodge looked back down to the Well Deck, and saw ‘quite a number
of steerage passengers … amusing themselves by walking over the ice, and
kicking it about the deck.’ Dodge noticed that no one around was displaying
‘any sign of apprehension’. There didn’t even seem to be that many people out
and about. Dodge decided to return to his stateroom to tell his wife what he
had seen and heard.233
Having seen ice covering the Well Deck, Alfred Nourney had decided to
go below and look for signs of damage. He ‘raced’ from the forward end of
the Promenade Deck down to the Squash Racquet Court. The two-deck space
had a Spectator’s Gallery on F Deck, with the players’ court on G Deck,
below. The G Deck court was the furthest-forward and lowest area of First
Class territory on the ship; it was directly inboard from the Post Office
Sorting Room, and just aft of the First Class Baggage Room.
234 Nourney
hurried down to the court, and was stunned to find three to six feet of water
there. He turned and headed back up.235
About a quarter hour after the shock George Rheims was informed,
perhaps by a passing steward, that the ship had collided with an iceberg, but
that there was no danger and everyone should go back to sleep. ‘Soon
afterwards’ Rheims was joined ‘at the top of the stairway’ by his brother-inlaw, Joseph Loring. This location apparently referred to the Boat Deck First
Class Entrance, at the top of the forward Grand Staircase. The two men stood
around discussing the situation.
236
William Carter went down to his two adjoining staterooms, B-96 and B98, where his family was sleeping. He woke his wife up, and told her about
what had occurred. He then told her that she and the children should dress.
237
Norman Chambers and his wife Bertha had gone on deck after the
collision. Earlier in the day, Norman had noticed that the liner had been listing
slightly to port. But ‘within a few minutes’, he noticed that she had begun to
list to starboard. There was also a slight pitch toward the bow. Although there
was no confusion on the decks around them, and everything seemed under
control, this list convinced Chambers that the ship was taking water, and
taking it on rapidly. He decided to stay awake until the situation was resolved,
‘in spite of a feeling of perfect safety’. Next, the couple started back down for
their E Deck cabin.
238
First Class passenger George Rheims.
Second Class passenger William Mellors.
Second Class passenger William Mellors had fallen back to sleep for
about ten minutes after the collision, having no reason to suspect anything was
wrong. Suddenly, his roommate, also an Englishman, barged into the cabin
and ‘began to yell out that the ship had struck an iceberg and he thought we
were going down. I really thought he was joking and told him so, but was
soon convinced of the fact by hearing people running about and shouting on
the deck and the engines being stopped.’239
Also in Second Class, Miss Susan Webber had gotten up out of bed after
the collision. After wrapping herself in a robe, she left her E Deck cabin –
which she shared with Edwina Troutt and Nora Keane – and went up on deck
to investigate. In the course of her probe, she was informed by ‘officers’ that
‘it was nothing’, so she returned to her cabin and went back to bed. However,
she found that she was having trouble getting back to sleep …240
A Weak Leader?
For many years, the public’s perception of Captain Smith was that he was a weak leader,
hopelessly ill-prepared for the startling circumstances in which he found himself after the
collision. Why did it take him so long to give the orders to load the lifeboats? Why did he
not make sure that every officer was fully informed as to the severity of the situation?
In fact, Captain Smith was not the weak leader so long assumed. Consider a summary
of his actions after the collision: he was on the Bridge within moments of the impact, and
immediately began an investigation into the nature and extent of the damage. He was seen
heading below not once, but twice after the collision, coordinating his investigation with
Thomas Andrews and also making two trips to the wireless office. In the course of his
trips below, Albert and Vera Dick recalled that he was ‘everywhere doing his best to calm
the rising tide of fear’.
247
During the course of these investigations – even before he had received the grim news
that the Titanic was doomed – Captain Smith had ordered his crew to begin preparing the
lifeboats, and to get the passengers into their lifebelts. All of these were proactive orders
that, in the end, wound up saving lives, since time was a far more precious commodity than
could have been imagined before his bleak conference with Thomas Andrews at about
12:25 a.m.
By that point, Smith was confronted with a conundrum … his officers and crew were
spread out across the Boat Deck, engaged in the enormous task of preparing the lifeboats
for loading and lowering. Calling these men, even if it was only the officers, to the Bridge
for a confab would have wasted precious time. It seems that he believed it was better to
let them do their work without interruption, and that he planned to take each step forward
as the opportunities presented themselves.
Captain Smith in his summer whites.
By about 12:30, he had given Lightoller permission to fill the port side boats; at about
12:40, he was seen ordering passengers down to the Promenade Deck to begin boarding
Boat No. 4; he personally assisted in the loading of Boats Nos 8, 6, and 2; a number of
times he checked in on the Bridge with Boxhall about the firing of the rockets; he checked
in with the wireless operators to see how things were going there, as well. Right up to the
end of the disaster, he was seen giving orders to his men before heading to the Bridge.
Indeed, for a man of his age, his physical exertions during the disaster seem to have been
great.
Instead of supporting such claims, the historical record tends to disprove the popularly
held concept that Captain Smith was a weak leader in a time of crisis. In retrospect, it
seems that Captain Smith’s actions probably saved many lives.
12:00 midnight–12:15 a.m.
At around 12:00 a.m., Fourth Officer Boxhall returned to the Bridge from his
second trek below and confirmed to Captain Smith that the Mail Room was
taking on water. At that point, the Captain had just returned from a trip down
at least as far as E Deck aft. When Boxhall made his report, the Captain
responded with a terse, ‘All right,’ and left the Bridge. Presumably, Smith
was headed below for his own personal inspection of the flooding forward.
By the time Captain Smith departed from the Bridge, the order had already
been given for ‘all hands’ to turn out, and Boxhall heard the order come down
for the crewmembers to begin uncovering and clearing the lifeboats.
241 Bruce
Ismay had by then returned to the Boat Deck, and ‘heard Capt. Smith give the
order to clear the boats’.
242 This order was proactive, as Captain Smith had
not yet learned the full extent of the damage, and did not yet know that the ship
was mortally wounded.243
Seaman Buley remembered an order from First Officer Murdoch for the
‘seamen to get together and uncover the boats and turn them out as quietly as
though nothing had happened’.
244
It was clear from all of this that the ship’s
officers were keen to do two things: first, to be fully prepared for any
eventuality; and second, to prevent any panic on the part of nervous
passengers as this work was done.
Around this time, Sixth Officer Moody told Quartermaster Olliver to go
get the muster list for the lifeboats.
245 Boxhall was ordered – possibly by
Chief Officer Wilde – to wake Second Officer Lightoller, Third Officer
Pitman, and Fifth Officer Lowe. The Fourth Officer later recalled that this
took place ‘approximately 20 minutes to half-an-hour’ after the collision, or
about midnight.
246 Sixth Officer Moody was sent on his way to start preparing
the aft port lifeboats.
Meanwhile, Isaac Frauenthal, who had been unable to rouse his brother,
had decided to look for Captain Smith or any other officer who could tell him
what had really happened. Eventually, he emerged on the deck, in search of
further information. He recalled:
There were few people on deck and none of them seemed to be
agitated. Presently I saw the captain appear, apparently from the
bridge, and several men approached him.
One of these was Col. Astor, and I heard him say to Capt. Smith:
‘Captain, my wife is not in good health. She has gone to bed, and I
don’t want to get her up unless it is absolutely necessary. What is the
situation?’
Capt. Smith replied quietly: ‘Col. Astor, you had better get your
wife up at once. I fear that we may have to take to the boats.’
Col. Astor never changed expression. He thanked the captain
courteously and walked rapidly, but composedly, toward the nearest
companionway.
In overhearing this conversation, Frauenthal began to realize that there was
some significant danger.
248
As Astor began to head down to his staterooms, C-17 and C-21, to wake
Madeleine, he bumped into Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon. Astor told Sir Cosmo
that he was going to get his wife up and dressed, and suggested that Sir Cosmo
do the same.
249
Helen Ostby remembered seeing Captain Smith ‘and one or two other
officers’ coming down the Grand Staircase, apparently just after Frauenthal
saw him talking with Astor. She believed that he was on his way ‘to explore
the ship and see what damage had been done. The officers looked very sober.
They didn’t stop to talk to the passengers at all.’250
In stateroom C-78 on the port side, Daisy Minahan was awakened by the
sound of a woman crying in the passageway outside. Daisy got up and
awakened her brother William, and his wife Lillian. It took them about five
minutes to get themselves put together before they turned out of their cabin.
251
After the collision, Marguerite Frölicher, her father Maximilian and her
mother Margaretha had gone up to the Promenade Deck. Young Marguerite
was so seasick through the entirety of the voyage that her presence on the deck
attracted attention. A Swiss banker who was a friend of her family came up
and joked, ‘Ah, Miss Frölicher, it takes an iceberg to get you on deck.’252
Below, the lights came back on in the stokeholds just as Barrett was
returning to Boiler Room No. 5 with lamps. It was still clear of water at the
time. Since the firemen had been called up a short while before this, and none
were then in No. 5, Barrett was ordered to go get some of them and draw the
fires in the boilers. This was necessary because the ship’s engines had
stopped, and most of her steam-generating plant was still providing steam at
high pressure, which in turn was being vented from the funnels far above the
ship. He returned with about 15 men, and got to work on this task …253
Elsewhere, Assistant Second Steward Joseph Wheat had watched for a
few minutes as water came onto G Deck by the Mail Room. He noted that the
water ‘was rising rapidly’. Then it struck him that it would be a good idea to
see if anyone had closed the watertight doors by the Turkish Baths. At the
time, he was on F Deck, so he had to cross up to E Deck, where there were no
watertight bulkheads, and move aft to the First Class staircase, where he
descended to F Deck again.
At the bottom of the stairs, there was a small foyer just aft of watertight
bulkhead F. The Swimming Baths were located forward of the bulkhead,
while the Turkish Baths were located aft of it. A non-watertight door on the
starboard side of the foyer led directly into the Turkish Bath suite, which was
nestled against the starboard hull; a watertight door also led from the forward
side of the foyer, and through the bulkhead. It entered upon a corridor which
ran along the bulkhead’s forward face and out to the starboard side of the
ship. On the forward side of that corridor, a non-watertight door led further
forward into the Swimming Bath; opposite that door, a second watertight door
passed aft, back through the bulkhead and into the Turkish Baths.
254
Wheat closed the watertight door that led forward through the bulkhead,
noting that there did not seem to be any water on F Deck at the time. However,
the starboard of the two watertight doors – the one between the Turkish Baths
and the Swimming Bath – had to be closed from E Deck, above. So Wheat
climbed the stairs again. On E Deck, he met up with Second Steward George
Dodd and Turkish Bath Attendant James Crosby. Someone produced the key
which operated the watertight door control, and they succeeded in closing that
watertight door, as well.
255
By that time, Lookouts Hogg and Evans had dressed to relieve fellow
Lookouts Fleet and Lee. They arrived in the Crow’s Nest at about 12:00 a.m.
Fleet and Lee were no doubt pleased to have the relief watch turn up a bit
early. As Fleet and Lee left the nest, Hogg and Evans would have found that
they had little to do, as the ship was stopped.256
Fleet and Lee descended the ladder within the Foremast, emerging on C
Deck just beneath the Forecastle. Just then, Lookout Symons was looking
through the open No. 1 hatchway at water entering that Cargo Hold below.
Reginald Lee remembered seeing firemen and greasers coming up to C Deck
with their kits, because their quarters were beginning to flood. Lee then joined
Symons, and looked down through Hatch No. 1; he also could see the water
coming into the hold. At about this time, Symons and Lee heard the Boatswain
give an order. Symons recalled it as: ‘All hands on the boat deck.’ Fleet and
Lee followed Symons and the other men up toward the Boat Deck.
257
Bedroom Steward Etches decided to get up, partially dress, and see if he
could figure out what was going on. He saw Third Class passengers ‘coming
along from forward with their portmanteaus’. Etches left his room, and had
gotten ‘about 30 yards’ down the corridor when he encountered one Steerage
passenger who was carrying a good-sized chunk of ice. Etches had no idea
who this passenger was, but the man singled Etches out, apparently believing
he was a steward who had not believed the ship struck an iceberg, and said to
him: ‘Will you believe it now?’ Then he chucked the ice down on to the deck.
After this rather bizarre conversation, of a sort, Etches returned to his quarters
and finished dressing.
258
Saloon Steward William Ward had waited for ‘about 20 minutes’ from the
time of the collision. During that time, ‘two or three people’ had come by and
said that the ship had struck an iceberg. Some even ‘brought pieces of ice
along in their hands’ as proof. Ward’s initial impression had been that ‘it was
the propeller gone’. At about this time, Ward – like Etches – heard steerage
passengers coming aft from the bow along Scotland Road, ‘carrying life belts
with them. Some of them got their grips and packages and had them with them,
and some were wet.’ Still, he did not think it was anything particularly
serious, so he lay there for a little while longer.
259
Up on deck, Boxhall was carrying out his latest assignment. The Fourth
Officer found Pitman awake and dressing at a rather leisurely pace. After
stepping out to investigate the vibration that he had felt earlier, the Third
Officer had returned to his cabin and lit his pipe, and decided to dress since
he had to go on duty soon. When Boxhall came by he told the Third Officer
that they had struck an iceberg, and that the Mail Room was flooding. As he
moved on, Pitman finished dressing with greater haste.
Boxhall did attempt to wake Fifth Officer Lowe, but the exhausted and
groggy Fifth Officer did not completely wake up and get out of bed. Instead,
he fell back to sleep for a while longer. When Boxhall went to rouse
Lightoller, though, he found him already awake and quietly remarked: ‘You
know we have struck an iceberg.’
Lightoller responded, ‘I know we have struck something.’ Then Boxhall
told him that the Mail Room was flooding, and Lightoller found that
information enough to move him into immediate action, realizing the damage
to the ship was significant. Despite the obviously serious nature of the liner’s
injuries, Lightoller did not conclude that there was any danger of her actually
sinking.
260 As Boxhall moved on and closed the door behind him, Lightoller
‘slipped into some clothes as quickly as possible, and went out on deck’.
261
When he left his room, he left his watch behind.262
Meanwhile, Second Class passenger Sidney Collett had gone to his cabin
to put more clothing on. Then he went to Miss Wright, and found that she had
already gotten up and was out on the deck.
263
Harvey and Charlotte Collyer were in their cabin when they heard a rush
of people about the decks outside. Although Harvey had shortly before
received reassurances that there was no danger, they decided to get up, get
their daughter Marjorie up, as well, and find out what was wrong. Mrs
Collyer tied her hair back in a ribbon, wrapped young Marjorie in a White
Star Line blanket, and they all left their cabin together. Harvey even left his
watch on his pillow … they all expected to return to their cabin soon.
264
Bedroom Steward Alfred Theissinger passed the steps which led down
toward the Mail Room. He ‘saw water pouring into a room filled with mail
bags’, which would have been the Sorting Room on G Deck.
At that time, Second Steward Dodd was standing there. He caught sight of
Theissinger, and shouted: ‘All stewards, call your people. Warn them to go on
deck.’ Theissinger ‘rushed’ toward the passengers who were in his care, aft
on E Deck.
265
By then, Archibald Gracie had joined his friend Clinch Smith and a
number of other male passengers at the foot of the forward First Class Grand
Staircase on A Deck. Smith had informed Gracie that ‘an iceberg had struck
us’. Then he opened his hand and showed Gracie a piece of ice, ‘flat like a
watch’, and deadpanned that Gracie should take it home for a souvenir.
Gracie and the others stood there chatting for a time, getting some details
about the collision, and hearing about how someone from the Smoking Room
had rushed out in time to spot the iceberg.
Another tidbit of information soon came to Gracie’s attention. The Mail
Room was flooded, and ‘the plucky postal clerks, in two feet of water, were
at their posts. They were engaged in transferring to the upper deck, from the
ship’s post-office, the two hundred bags of registered mail containing four
hundred thousand letters.’
It was at about that time that Smith and Gracie ‘noticed a list on the floor
of the companionway’. This development was somewhat sobering; the
situation was obviously serious. However, the two men kept their observation
between themselves, not wanting to cause any undue anxiety to others,
particularly the ladies who had just begun to appear on the scene. Smith and
Gracie promised then and there to ‘stick together in the final emergency’,
helping each other to get through whatever lay ahead. Gracie recalled:
I recall having in my mind’s eye at this moment all that I had read and
heard in days gone by about shipwrecks, and pictured Smith and
myself clinging to an overloaded raft in an open sea with a scarcity of
food and water.
266
The two men parted company, and headed to their respective staterooms to
make further preparations.
Meanwhile, Third Officer Pitman had finished dressing and left his cabin.
He went out onto the port side Boat Deck, and moved toward the aft quarter,
where he came across Sixth Officer Moody and some of the crew uncovering
the boats there. When Pitman asked, Moody told him that he had not seen the
iceberg, but that there was ice up forward on the Well Deck. From his
position inside the enclosed wheelhouse next to Quartermaster Hichens at the
time of the collision, Moody would have been unable to see the iceberg as it
passed by. Upon hearing the junior officer’s news, Pitman decided to
investigate for himself.
267
By that point, Alfred Nourney had made it back topside after having seen
the Squash Racquet Court flooding on G Deck. He informed his friends that
the Titanic was in danger, but nobody believed him. Someone said to him: ‘It
doesn’t matter because the Titanic cannot sink.’268
When William Sloper finished dressing and started to return to the deck,
he noticed that the ship was listing toward the starboard bow. He met Pauline
and Dorothy Gibson, as well as Frederic Seward, on the stairs; the quartet
went up to the deck together. As they walked forward from the stern, Sloper’s
heart sank as he observed that ‘there was really quite a pitch downward of the
deck under our feet’. Just then, someone came by and told them that the Squash
Court was filling with water. This news frightened Miss Gibson, despite
reassurances from stewards that the watertight doors had been closed and the
ship was safe. The group returned to the forward First Class Entrance.
269
The Hoyts were still on deck, and had not yet returned to their cabin. Not
long before, they had asked Dr O’Loughlin if the accident was serious, and he
had replied that he didn’t know. A ‘few minutes afterward’, O’Loughlin
returned and told Frederick Hoyt that they should return to their stateroom and
dress fully. Then the doctor leaned in and whispered to Frederick that the
damage was ‘serious’, and that ‘the squash court … was rapidly filling with
water at the time’. By that point, Mrs Hoyt had noticed ‘a slight listing to the
boat’. The couple then returned to their cabin to dress.
270
Major Arthur Peuchen had bumped into Harry Molson and chatted for a
bit. At this point, Peuchen came across Charles Hays on C Deck. Rather
jocularly, he said: ‘Mr Hays, have you seen the ice?’
‘No,’ Hays responded.
‘If you care to see it,’ Peuchen offered, ‘I will take you up on the deck and
show it to you.’ Peuchen led Hays up to the forward rail on A Deck. It was
then that the Major noticed the ship had taken on a list. Suddenly, all traces of
levity were gone; the yachtsman knew something was wrong. ‘Why, she is
listing; she should not do that, the water is perfectly calm, and the boat has
stopped.’
Hays confidently replied: ‘Oh, I don’t know; you can not sink this boat.
No matter what we have struck, she is good for 8 or 10 hours.’271
The Thayers had been on deck for a while, looking to find more
information on the ship’s situation. While there, they began to notice not only
the ship’s list, but the fact that the list was steadily increasing. They also had
seen some of the ship’s officers, Bruce Ismay and even Thomas Andrews all
pass by as these men investigated the damage to the ship. It seems to have
been at about this point that Mrs Thayer decided to go below to their
staterooms and begin to dress. John and Jack stayed behind on the deck for a
little while longer.
272
Elmer Taylor had also left his cabin to investigate what had happened.
After leisurely dressing and leaving his cabin, he …
… went up through the companionway [referring to the Aft Grand
Staircase] adjacent to the restaurant, or Café Parisian, to ‘B’ Deck.
The orchestra was playing, and many people were sitting at tables
playing cards as I passed through. There was scarcely anyone on deck.
I said to a sailor, ‘Why have we stopped?’ ‘Struck an iceberg,’ he
said.
I walked forward, saw nothing peculiar except for crushed ice
which had been shivered from the iceberg. Picking up a piece of ice
about the size of an egg, I went below, stopped at my cabin, told my
wife we struck an iceberg and then went along to Williams’ cabin [C128].
He was sitting up in bed in a dressing gown, reading a book,
smoking a huge cigar and sipping a highball which was beside him.
‘Well, Williams,’ I said, ‘we have struck an iceberg and I have
brought you a piece of it to put in your highball, so here goes.’
Williams asked, ‘Is there any cause for alarm?’ and I again assured
him that this ship was unsinkable.
273
Taylor chatted with Williams for a few minutes more.
Meanwhile, Isaac Frauenthal had overheard Captain Smith telling John
Jacob Astor that they might have to take to the boats, and that he should
awaken Mrs Astor. ‘From the captain and stewards,’ Frauenthal recalled, ‘I
quickly got an inkling of the peril we were in so I went back to brother
Henry’s room in a hurry and began pounding on his door again.’
His brother Henry, Isaac recalled, ‘had hardly paid attention to the fuss
that was beginning all around, people running to and fro, men calling out
everywhere, a general confusion of unfamiliar sounds, but finally I made him
understand that the Titanic had been mortally hurt.’274
Dr Henry Frauenthal remembered that both he and his wife had been
‘sleeping soundly’, and that ‘at about twelve o’clock’, Isaac came pounding at
their cabin door, insisting they get up. Henry was so groggy that he thought he
‘had overslept and was late’. He asked what the matter was, and through the
door, Isaac told him that something had happened to the boat.
This was enough to get Henry up to go to his cabin door and open it.
275
Isaac informed him that ‘he had overheard the captain informing Colonel
Astor that something serious had happened to the boat, and advised that
everyone put on life preservers, and they were lowering the lifeboats.’ This
may have been a slight exaggeration of Captain Smith’s words to Astor, but
Isaac Frauenthal was doubtless desperate to get his brother to wake up and
prepare for whatever lay ahead. Henry concluded ‘that the trouble was with
the machinery’, and decided to go up to the Boat Deck to have a look for
himself.
276
Edwin Kimball had been out to see what all the fuss was about. As he
returned to his stateroom forward on D Deck, he had seen one of the Mail
Clerks head down below, taking the staircase from E Deck down toward the
Mail Room and Squash Court. Kimball apparently followed him down to E
Deck, for when he saw the Mail Clerk come back up from the Mail Room …
… he had one mail bag in his hands and was wet to the knees. I asked
him how bad it was. He seemed very serious and said it was pretty
bad and that he would advise the women to dress, as they might have
to go on deck, and it would be cold.277
Kimball headed back up toward his cabin. On the way, he began to spread the
news, almost word for word what the Mail Clerk had told him:
We instructed the other women in our party to dress and everyone else
in our corridor, including a number of women who were traveling
alone.
In his own cabin, he found that Mrs Kimball had already started dressing.
Kimball told her ‘to dress warmly, as we probably would be on deck for
some time.’278
Karl Behr and Helen Newsom had already returned to her parents’ room
at that point. They were well acquainted with the Kimballs, and this was
probably the group that William Kimball remembered instructing to dress.
Behr and Helen Newsom agreed, and Behr waited while the Beckwiths and
Helen began to dress warmly.
279
Shortly after their first reassurance that there was no danger, Margaret
Swift and Dr Alice Leader had a visitor who told them that they had struck an
iceberg, and who held in his hand some of the ice that was ‘thrown all along
the passageway’ under the porthole. At that time, Mrs Swift thought that no
one seemed alarmed; the lights were all on, and there were no signs of panic.
So she went back to bed, but soon got back up and got dressed ‘as a mater of
precaution’.
280
Next door, Mrs Emma Bucknell was dressing in her warmest clothes, as
was her maid, Albina Bazzani. Although they had already received
reassurances, Emma was not convinced of their accuracy. As they dressed, a
man came through the hallways ‘crying out that everyone should dress
immediately and go on deck’.
281 Emma asked Albina to fasten her gown, and
then she grabbed a heavy fur coat and stepped out into the corridor.
Just then, Mrs Bucknell noticed a young woman nearby, telling another
young woman that they had struck an iceberg. The second woman replied that
it could not be possible.
282 Emma went to the end of the corridor, picked up
the pieces of ice that still littered the floor, and then held them out to the two
ladies. ‘Here is ice. It is an iceberg,’ she said. Then she went back inside to
her cabin. Just then, Emma recalled that her maid was becoming slightly
unhinged. She ‘pleaded’ with Emma not to go on deck, and ‘cried’ that they
would ‘surely be lost’ if they didn’t stay in the safety of their room. Emma’s
reply was firm: the only thing to do was obey orders implicitly and their
orders were to proceed immediately to the deck. The last thing she did before
leaving the cabin was to take a drink of water. They also took the opportunity
to gather up all the valuables that they ‘could collect in a hurry’.
283
Shortly after midnight, Norman and Bertha Chambers reached E Deck
forward. Although they were headed toward their cabin, E-8, to fully dress,
Mr Chambers ‘looked at the starboard end of our passage, where there was
the companion leading to the quarters of the mail clerks and farther on to the
baggage room and, I believe, the mail-sorting room.’ It was at the top of these
stairs that the Chambers found ‘a couple of mail clerks wet to their knees,
who had just come up from below, bringing their registered mail bags. As the
door in the bulkhead in the next deck was open,’ Mr Chambers was able to
‘look directly into the trunk room, which was then filled with water, and was
within 18 inches or 2 feet of the deck above [F Deck].’
The Chambers stood there, ‘joking about our baggage being completely
soaked and about the correspondence which was seen floating about on the
top of the water’. Norman Chambers still thought that there was no pressing
danger, however, since the water was ‘forward of the bulkhead’. He recalled:
While we were standing there three of the ship’s officers – I did not
notice their rank or department – descended the first companion and
looked into the baggage, coming back up immediately, saying that we
were not making any more water. This was not an announcement, but
merely a remark passed from one to the other.
Then the Chambers returned to their stateroom, only ‘a few yards away’. They
encountered their Bedroom Steward in the companionway, and he told them
that they could go back to bed again, as there was no danger. Mr Chambers
thought that they probably could, as well. However, he decided to dress more
completely.
284
Third Officer Pitman was walking forward from the aft port quarter of the
Boat Deck, where he had bumped into Sixth Officer Moody. Moody had told
Pitman that there was ice on the Well Deck, forward. Pitman was not
convinced that there was anything significantly wrong, but headed forward to
see for himself. He descended to the Well Deck and saw the ice. Then he
headed all the way forward underneath the Forecastle, but could see no sign
of damage.
285
While Pitman was forward, back on the Boat Deck, work was progressing
under the watchful eye of Captain Smith’s officers. First Officer Murdoch
took charge of the starboard side boats. On the port side, Chief Officer Wilde
took charge, and Second Officer Lightoller would assist him. At first, with
Smith, Pitman and Boxhall occupied elsewhere, Lowe still in his cabin, and
Murdoch working on the starboard side, Sixth Officer Moody did not have
much assistance in overseeing the preparation of the port boats.
When Lightoller emerged from his cabin onto the Boat Deck, he had found
that the noise of escaping steam made it very difficult to communicate with
anyone. He met Chief Officer Wilde right away, just outside the door to the
Officers’ Quarters, and Wilde ordered him to get the covers off the boats. He
asked if all hands had been called, and Wilde replied in the affirmative.
Lightoller found that none of the covers had been stripped off the regular
lifeboats at that point.
286
 There was a lot of labor ahead …
Elsewhere, Sidney Collett had found Marion Wright. Then he headed back
up to the Boat Deck, and saw that the crew was ‘getting the lifeboats ready’.
He went back down and told ‘many women’ that the accident was serious, but
they did not seem to believe it.
287
Second Class passenger Lawrence Beesley, still standing on the Boat
Deck, noticed the same thing that Collett did … just as he was about to go
back inside he saw ‘an officer climb on the last lifeboat on the port side –
number 16 – and begin to throw off the cover’. He noticed that not many
people seemed to be paying attention to the officer, perhaps Sixth Officer
Moody, as he worked. Beesley turned to go below, and noticed something
rather unusual:
As I passed the door to go down, I looked forward again and saw to
my surprise an undoubted tilt downwards from the stern to the bows:
only a slight slope, which I don’t think anyone had noticed, – at any
rate, they had not remarked on it. As I went downstairs a confirmation
of this tilting forward came in something unusual about the stairs, a
curious sense of something out of balance and of not being able to put
one’s feet down in the right place.
The observant former school teacher concluded that ‘some of the front
compartments had been filled and weighed her down’. On his way down,
Beesley found three ladies who were alarmed that the ship’s engines had
stopped. ‘Oh! why have we stopped?’ they asked.
Beesley replied: ‘We did stop, but we are now going on again.’
‘Oh, no,’ one replied. ‘I cannot feel the engines as I usually do, or hear
them. Listen!’
Beesley listened for a moment with the ladies, and was forced to admit to
himself that ‘there was no throb audible.’ Yet to reassure them that all was
well, and perhaps to reassure himself, as well, Beesley took them into a
nearby bathroom. Previously he had noticed that the vibration of the ship’s
engines was most noticeable while in the bath, and so he had them feel the
vibrations of the ship’s machinery on the side of the bathtub.
These vibrations made everyone feel much better, reassuring them that the
ship was once again underway. In reality, however, the ladies were right. The
ship’s main engines had already been stopped; the vibrations Beesley showed
them were almost certainly the result of some of the ship’s auxiliary
machinery, which was not far from their location on D Deck.
His good deed done for the night, Beesley returned to his cabin. Near his
room, he ran across another man who asked him: ‘Anything fresh?’
Beesley responded that there wasn’t much to tell … the ship was ‘going
ahead slowly’ and that she was ‘down a little at the bows’, but he added that
he didn’t think that it was anything serious. The man then showed him his
room mate, lying in his top bunk. Beesley asked if this man was asleep.
‘No,’ the other man said, laughing as he started to dress, ‘he says –’
The aft port lifeboats on the Olympic. Pictured, from right to left, are Boats Nos 10, 12, 14 and 16.
Just then the man in the top berth grunted: ‘You don’t catch me leaving a
warm bed to go up on that cold deck at midnight. I know better than that.’
Beesley suggested lightheartedly that he might as well get up, but the man
refused. Beesley went back to his own cabin, put on some underclothes, and
settled in to read.288
Second Class passenger Benjamin Hart had returned to his wife and
daughter in their cabin, and told them that there was nothing to worry about.
‘All the men are at the lifeboats, it’s only a lifeboat drill,’ he said. Esther was
thoroughly unconvinced, responding that ship’s crews did not hold lifeboat
drills in the middle of the night. She was sure that something terrible was
wrong with the ship, and eventually she managed to convince her husband of
the trouble, as well. The three turned out and headed topside.
289
Third Class passengers Percival and Florence Thorneycroft had waited
another twenty minutes or so from the time their friend had informed them they
had struck an iceberg. Only then did the word come down for them to ‘get on
their lifebelts and go to the second deck’.
290
Elias and Jamilia Nicola-Yarred had felt the collision in their room in
Third Class. Fourteen-year-old Nicola had been concerned by the collision,
but her eleven-year-old brother had told her to go back to sleep, that she
worried too much. A little while later, an elderly man who had taken a
fatherly interest in the siblings during the voyage came into their room. He
said very calmly: ‘Come out of your cabin and go to the upper deck. Don’t
bother about taking your belongings for now. You’ll get them later.’291
Bedroom Steward Alfred Theissinger eventually reached the stretch of
cabins which were in his charge.
292 He proceeded to cabin E-67, where Emil
and Tillie Taussig were berthed. This cabin was located on the starboard side
of E Deck, just astern and outboard of the uptake for the No. 3 funnel. He
knocked on the cabin door, and called out: ‘You had better put on your
lifebelts and rush to the deck.’
Emil Taussig responded from within the cabin: ‘Is it as serious as all
that?’
‘Yes,’ Theissinger replied. ‘Hurry.’
From within, the steward was sure that he heard Tillie begin to cry, and he
also heard her husband reassure her: ‘Don’t cry. Be brave. All will surely be
all right.’
The steward moved across the hall to the door of their daughter’s room,
E-68. Just as he approached it, 18-year-old Ruth opened the door of her own
accord; she had been awakened by ‘the uproar’. Theissinger ‘urged her to put
on a coat; not to stop to dress.’ Ruth said that she wanted to dress, but at this,
Theissinger put his foot down. ‘To hell with the clothes. Slip into this great
coat. If you stop to dress you’ll drown.’ He made sure to adjust her lifebelt
properly, and then he moved on to other cabins in his section.
293
Elsewhere, Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon returned to his wife, Lucy, after being
gone for about ‘ten minutes’. Lucy had needed to beg him to go out and find
out what the trouble was, a trip which he had set off on most unwillingly.
However, it seemed that he had found something serious while he was gone;
he was ‘looking rather grave’ as he came in. He said: ‘I have just been up on
the bridge and seen Colonel Astor. He told me that he was going to ask his
wife to dress, and I think that you had better do the same.’ He also informed
her that they had ‘hit some ice, apparently a big berg, but that there seemed to
be no danger’. Lady Duff Gordon began to look for the warmest clothes that
she could possibly find so that she could begin to dress.
294
May Futrelle and Irene Harris had dressed while their husbands were out
on deck investigating the situation. While the men were gone, another
passenger came by, a young man who was a friend of the Harrises. He came
into the cabin with the two ladies, and he looked pale. May asked him to tell
them what had happened.
‘I don’t believe it’s serious,’ he said, ‘but we seem to have brushed
against an iceberg.’
Just then Jacques and Henry returned. They affirmed that they had heard
the iceberg story. However, they also said that they had heard that the officers
had closed the watertight doors, and done an investigation of everything
below, and that they had been told there was no danger.
295
Mrs Swift and Dr Leader had decided to dress ‘as a matter of precaution’.
Once they were decent, they ‘went out into the passageway’. There, ‘one of
the officers’ told them: ‘We’ve struck a berg Madame, but there is no
danger.’296
When Emma Bucknell and her maid Albina Bazzani finished dressing,
they went up on deck, and found that there was ‘no excitement’ there among
the passengers. ‘They were in groups talking to one another.’ She saw Colonel
John Astor and his wife Madeleine, the Wideners, and a number of others
talking about the collision with ‘what was said to have been a submerged
iceberg’.
However, Emma knew that it couldn’t have been a submerged berg they
had collided with, as there was too much ice in the hallways by the porthole.
She then heard another woman passenger ‘declare that it had been higher than
deck D’, which fitted very well with Emma’s own sighting of the berg.
Emma ‘stayed for a time on the starboard side, where the ship had struck.
A man passing through declared that the bow had only been slightly damaged
and that they were then lowering the bulkhead doors.’297
Margaret Brown had gotten up twice since the collision, and each time
had found nothing particularly worrisome. It was probably at about this time,
however, that she decided to get up and look out into the corridor again. When
she did, she found a man who looked absolutely terrified. He told her to get
her lifebelt before he moved on. Margaret grabbed all of the lifebelts in her
room, put on a fur coat, placed a silk capote over her head, and then hurriedly
ascended to the Promenade Deck.
298
When Daisy Minahan, her brother William and his wife Lillian arrived on
deck, they found that the ship was listing. ‘The frightful slant of the deck
toward the bow of the boat gave us our first thought of danger,’ she
recalled.299
Below deck, Captain Smith was on his own inspection tour. Stewardess
Annie Robinson saw him on E Deck, heading towards the Mail Room with a
mail clerk and Chief Purser Hugh McElroy. Smith must have met Thomas
Andrews there, for at around 12:10 a.m., Robinson saw the two men come
back from the Mail Room together. She overheard Andrews telling the
Captain: ‘Well, three have gone already, Captain,’ undoubtedly a reference to
the first three watertight compartments. Her curiosity piqued, Robinson went
to see what they had been looking at, and saw water within six steps of
coming onto E Deck, near the stairs leading down to the Mail Room.
300
Following this, Captain Smith and Andrews separated, with Smith
heading back up to the Bridge, while Andrews stayed below to continue his
inspection. At that point, it looked like a bad situation, to be sure, but not one
that seemed uncontrollable. In fact, previously, the ‘officers’ inspecting the
Mail Room were overheard saying something to the effect that ‘we were not
making any more water.’301
Captain Smith did not stay below long, and Saloon Steward Mackay saw
him come back up the working staircase from below, and head towards the
upper decks.
302 What Smith saw or was told during his first trips below is
unknown, but between that knowledge, and the earlier reports that the
Carpenter and the mail clerk had given him on the Bridge, he would have
known that there was rather serious flooding below. While none of this
information would necessarily have meant that the ship was actually in danger
of sinking, he would have known that the situation was very serious.
Antoinette Flegenheim had gone up on deck quickly after the collision.
She had only paused long enough to put on a pair of stockings and slippers.
When she had arrived topside, ‘there were comparatively few people there.
There was no confusion, and as there did not seem to be anything to become
excited over, no one was excited.’ However, after a little while, she
remembered that the order came through for passengers to board the lifeboats.
Even so, there seemed no reason for excitement, and Titanic seemed safe for
hours yet. At this point, she decided to head back down to her cabin and dress
fully – and warmly – so that she would be fully prepared ‘for the emergency if
it came’. Just then, ‘an officer detained’ her, and told her that she had to get
into the boats without going back below.
303
In the Saloon Stewards’ Quarters on the port side of E Deck, Frederick
Dent Ray was just getting back to sleep. He estimated roughly that it was
somewhere ‘around about 12 o’clock’ when he was suddenly brought back to
consciousness. It was ‘the saloon steward’, apparently a reference to First
Dining Saloon Steward William Moss.
304 He was followed in short order by
‘Mr Dodd, the second steward’. They told everyone to get up and head for the
lifeboats. Ray began to dress.
305
William Moss was also spotted by Saloon Steward William Ward. Moss
told Ward and those in the room that they ‘were all to go on deck’, and that
they should ‘put on some warm clothing’ as they were ‘liable to be there some
time’. At that, ‘most everybody’ in the Ward’s Glory Hole got up and began to
dress. Ward was still not convinced that anything was significantly wrong.
306
Steward Nichols had stayed up for a while after the collision talking to his
mates. After this, Nichols recalled that ‘the second steward in charge of our
cabin came in and gave us the orders to report upon deck. That meant that we
were to report to the positions assigned to us in the life boat drill.’ Nichols’
assigned lifeboat was No. 15, and he began to head up to the Boat Deck.
307
Around this time, First Class Stewardess Violet Jessop had come back in
from the Boat Deck, where she had seen crewmen working at the lifeboats;
she was looking for something to throw over her shoulders, since it was quite
cold outside. On her way back up, she ran into a group of officers, which
included Captain Smith and Chief Purser McElroy – fresh from their
inspection of the damage – along with Bruce Ismay, and Doctor O’Loughlin.
They smiled at her, and she waved back. They did not seem overly concerned
about anything at that point. She turned and ran into 21-year-old Scottish
violinist John ‘Jock’ Hume, and the bandleader, Wallace Hartley. Hartley’s
‘crowd’ – the other members of the ship’s band – was close in tow, all
holding their instruments. Hume smiled as he passed Jessop, and he said: ‘Just
going to give them a tune to cheer things up a bit.’ Then he passed her and
continued up.308
The Boat Deck level of the Olympic’s First Class Entrance, looking forward and to starboard. It
was at the top of Titanic’s nearly identical twin that Bruce Ismay encountered Chief Engineer
Joseph Bell. The space grew quite crowded as passengers began to arrive on the decks to
investigate the collision, and it was in this room’s near twin that they watched through the
Palladian windows as the lifeboats were prepared on the Boat Deck.
Charles and Annie Stengel had walked around the Boat Deck for a while,
noticing only a few people were up and about. Then they turned and went
back into the Entrance, and began descending to the Promenade Deck. Just
then, they saw Captain Smith coming up. Charles Stengel’s impression of the
Captain’s emotions was a bit different from that of Violet Jessop. He recalled
that the Captain showed ‘a very serious and a very grave face’. Stengel turned
to his wife and said: ‘This is a very serious matter, I believe.’ They also
noticed a couple, whom Charles Stengel thought was the Wideners, following
the Captain up the stairs. He assumed they were returning to their
staterooms.
309
12:15 a.m.–12:25 a.m.
As Third Officer Pitman was headed aft from the extremity of the Forecastle,
but before he emerged onto the Well Deck, he noticed ‘a whole crowd’ of
firemen coming up from below with their kits. This was an unusual
development. ‘What is the matter?’ he asked the men.
‘The water is coming in our place,’ they replied.
First Class passenger Lucy Noël Martha, the Countess of Rothes.
One of Olympic’s crewmen dons a lifebelt. He is standing just in front of the raised roof over the
First Class Smoking Room on the port side.
‘That is funny,’ Pitman replied. Then he went to the No. 1 hatch, just near
the Seamens’ Mess. There he – like Symons and a number of others before
him – was able to look down and see water flooding the hold. He thought that
it was ‘quite a little stream, both sides of the hatch’, and that it was coming
‘mostly from the starboard side’. At this, Pitman turned and began to head
back up to the Boat Deck.
310
Captain Smith had arrived back on the Bridge sometime around 12:12
a.m. At around 12:15 a.m., Quartermaster Hichens, still standing at the ship’s
helm, overheard Smith give the order to swing out the lifeboats, and to begin
getting the passengers up on deck with lifebelts on.
311 This was another
proactive measure on Smith’s part, as nobody yet knew that the ship was
sinking.
It seems likely that Smith worked out the ship’s approximate position,
using dead reckoning, at about this time.
312 After giving the order to swing out
the boats and begin getting passengers on deck, the Captain next headed off to
the Marconi room. With some rather weighty information in hand, but without
all the details at his disposal, the Captain was leaving nothing to chance.
When he arrived there, he put his head in the cabin and said that they had
struck an iceberg, and that an inspection was then being made to tell ‘what it
had done for’ the ship. ‘You better get ready to send out a call for assistance.
But don’t send it until I tell you.’ Then he was gone …
313
By that point, Major Arthur Peuchen had proceeded to the First Class
Entrance and was waiting by the Grand Staircase for ‘10 minutes or more’
when he noticed ‘ladies and gentlemen all coming in off of the deck looking
very serious’. He spied Thomson Beattie, and asked him: ‘What is the
matter?’
Beattie replied: ‘Why the order is for life belts and boats.’
Peuchen was stunned, hardly believing his ears. ‘Will you tell Mr Ross?’
he asked.
Beattie replied: ‘Yes; I will go and see Mr Ross.’
Peuchen headed down the Grand Staircase to return to his own cabin. He
was then in evening dress, and did not feel that his attire was equal to the
frigid cold on the deck.
314
‘Shortly after’ Charles and Annie Stengel had seen Captain Smith
ascending the Grand Staircase with a ‘very serious and a very grave face’, the
orders came through ‘to have the passengers all put on life preservers’. The
couple left and returned to their cabin.
315
Gladys Cherry and the Countess of Rothes had stayed up on deck. They
were talking about perhaps returning to bed when Captain Smith came by,
appearing rather suddenly. He said: ‘I don’t want to frighten anyone, but will
you all go quietly and put on your life belts and go up on the top deck?’ The
two ladies, along with a number of others nearby, did as they were asked
without rushing and with the utmost calmness.
316
Karl Behr was just then proceeding up the stairs from D Deck. He was
with the Kimballs, and as his party and he were headed up the stairs, they ran
across Captain Smith. Smith was ‘on the main stairways and he was telling
everyone to put on life belts’.
317
Eleanor Cassebeer had gone up on deck quickly after the collision, not
having taken the time to dress. She had bumped into a then-optimistic Thomas
Andrews, who had told her that the ship could be cut into three parts and not
sink; while he had gone below and was inspecting the damage, Cassebeer and
Harry Anderson had stayed on the deck, and then proceeded to the First Class
Entrance. While she and Anderson sat there, however, Eleanor noticed a
change in the general mood …
Chief Purser McElroy, in tandem with a number of his men, approached
and ‘started to go among the passengers ordering them to go below and put on
warm clothing and be prepared to embark in the lifeboats’. He also mentioned
that they should put on their lifebelts, and should bring all of the blankets in
their cabins up to the Boat Deck with them. Harry Anderson asked Eleanor if
she was frightened, and she replied that she was not. Then they parted,
agreeing to meet back up right where they were. Eleanor ‘hurried below’ to
her cabin to get dressed.318
It seems that right after Mrs Cassebeer spotted Chief Purser McElroy,
McElroy started to go below via the Grand Staircase. Assistant Second
Steward Joseph Wheat was then coming up the same stairs from E Deck to C
Deck. Before he reached the C Deck landing, he saw McElroy ‘looking over
the banisters’. When McElroy spotted Wheat, the Purser told him ‘to get the
men up and get all lifebelts and all passengers’. Wheat turned back around
and headed below to help rouse all of the stewards; when he got there,
however, he found most of them were already awake, so he turned around and
headed back up, pitching into the effort to help passengers get dressed and get
their lifebelts on.
319
Meanwhile, John and Jack Thayer were still on deck when they heard the
stewards passing word, at ‘about 12:15’, for ‘every one to get fully clothed
and put on life preservers, which were in each stateroom’. Jack was still in
his pajamas with a coat over them. He and his father descended to their
rooms, where they found Marian Thayer and her maid, Margaret Fleming,
already fully dressed. Jack ‘hurried’ into his own clothes, dressing warmly.
Then they all put on their lifebelts.
320
William Sloper heard the order for everyone to get their lifebelts on as he
stood with Pauline and Dorothy Gibson and Frederic Seward in the First
Class Entrance. As he watched people near him tying on their lifebelts, Sloper
was consumed with an indescribable and horrible feeling. They headed below
to get their belts from their respective rooms.
321
Shortly after ‘one of the officers’ had come through and informed Mrs
Swift and Dr Leader that everything was safe, he returned. This time, he
advised them to go on deck and get into the lifeboats. He added, however: ‘It
is simply to be on the safe side.’322
Edwin Kimball and his wife had taken the time to dress warmly. When
they eventually left their cabin, they still felt that everything was all right. Just
a few steps on, however …
… a young lady of our party came back from the upper deck and we
asked her what was going on up there. She said the order had been
given to put on the life belts. We returned to our staterooms, which
were only a few feet away, got our life belts and notified all the
women in the corridor to do the same and come with us. None of us
knew how to put on the belts, but I saw an officer in the
companionway and he showed us how to put them on, telling us that
there was no danger and that everyone would be all right.
323
Karl Behr, the Beckwiths, and Helen Newsom joined the Kimballs,
apparently in the hallway. Behr remembered that they put their lifebelts on
calmly.
324
Henry Harris and Jacques Futrelle had just returned to the Harris’s cabin
from their trip up on deck to investigate what had happened. Upon returning,
they explained to the ladies what they had heard. Just then, Harris came across
someone in the hallway outside their cabin. May Futrelle thought he might
have been an officer. The two men conversed in low tones. She couldn’t hear
what the officer told Harris. However, she did hear Harris respond with the
word, ‘Really?’ in a tone that she did not like.
Then Harris returned to the room. May noticed he had gone pale. He said:
‘I think you’d better get over to your own cabin and dress. I don’t like the
looks of this very well.’
May Futrelle was frightened, and had scarcely risen from the bed when
she heard knocking on cabin doors down the corridor, a sound which was
coming steadily nearer. As she opened the door, she saw a steward in the
opposite entry call out: ‘Every one put on life-preservers and come on deck.’
As May crossed the corridor to their own room, she saw ‘men rushing
down the passageway trying on life-preservers’. Her inward ‘terror seemed
to grow’. Jacques tried to reassure her that all of this was just a precaution,
and she wanted to believe him, but she was not entirely sure.
325
Meanwhile, Colonel Archibald Gracie had returned to his stateroom and
packed his bags. Then he had put on his long Newmarket overcoat, which
reached below his knees, to ward off the frigid cold outside. This
accomplished, he left his cabin and headed back up toward the First Class
Entrance forward. As he came into the Entrance from the corridor, he spied
Bruce Ismay standing next to a ship’s officer – perhaps one of the very men
that Violet Jessop had just seen standing with the Captain and Ismay. Gracie
noticed that Ismay was smiling serenely. By this point, the well-known
Chairman of the White Star Line knew that the ship was seriously damaged;
one can only conceive that his unruffled smile was the putting on of a brave
face for the sake of other passengers.
Incongruous to this rather reassuring sight, however, Gracie noticed
something else, and something that only served to confirm his ‘worst fears’.
He saw that ‘men and women were slipping on life-preservers, the stewards
assisting in adjusting them. Steward Cullen insisted upon my returning to my
stateroom for mine.’ Gracie headed back down to his cabin yet again.
326
Earlier, Dr Henry Frauenthal had been awakened out of a deep sleep by
his brother. Now convinced that something wasn’t quite right, he had gone up
to investigate matters. Upon reaching the Boat Deck, he noticed that ‘there
were a few people there, but no confusion’. He saw the crew lowering the
boats down, and decided to go below and get his wife ready for whatever lay
ahead.327
Within minutes of arriving on the Promenade Deck, young Marguerite
Frölicher succumbed to another bout of violent seasickness. Her father was
furious with her, pointing out that she couldn’t be sick at a time like that. The
young girl’s response, fed by the miserable way she had felt for so many days,
was equally tart: ‘I don’t care, I’m going back to my cabin.’ Then she started
off for their B Deck cabin, and her parents followed after her.
When they reached B Deck, they found a stewardess standing in the hall.
Maximilian Frölicher-Stehli paused to ask her if there was any danger. The
English stewardess replied: ‘Yes, sir, there is. Take your lifejackets and go to
the boat deck.’328
John Snyder had, at his wife’s request, made one trip out on deck to
investigate the situation. Reassured by crew members that nothing was wrong,
he returned to his wife, who told him to go back out and make sure they were
really safe. A second trip out on deck ensued, after which he returned to his
cabin with further reassurance that nothing was wrong. Again Nelle sent him
out to investigate the situation, and finally he returned to his room, B-45, with
a third reassurance that ‘nothing serious had happened’. This time, enough
was enough. Just as he was preparing to climb back into bed, ‘a steward came
running along the aisle telling everyone not to be alarmed but to dress
hurriedly and go on deck.’ The couple began to dress.
329
French singer Madame Léontine Aubart and her maid Emma Marie
Sägesser had rushed on deck in their nightclothes after the collision. They
took nothing with them; back in the cabin, Madame Aubart – mistress of
Benjamin Guggenheim – had left many valuables, an expensive Paris
wardrobe, and ‘jewels worth £4,000’. As they passed up on deck, they were
assisted into lifebelts.
330
Steward Henry Etches turned out of his E Deck quarters and began
heading up on deck. On the way, he met Steward Stone, who was the one of
the E Deck Bedroom Stewards.
331
 Etches asked Stone: ‘What is the time?’
Stone replied: ‘Never mind about that; there is something else for you to
do. I saw them pull up bags of mail, and the water running out of the bottom of
them.’
Just then, the steward who was to relieve Stone called out to him, and
Etches left Stone and the other steward behind so that he could proceed
topside. His first thought was apparently to stop by the stateroom of one of his
charges, Benjamin Guggenheim, in stateroom B-84. He awoke Guggenheim
and his valet, Victor Giglio, and told them to get dressed, but he told them that
he would return, and that there was plenty of time. Then, perhaps because he
was worried about being late to report for his night watch on A Deck, he left
to find the steward he was supposed to relieve.
332
Philipp Mock remembered ‘a man’ passing among the passengers,
‘notifying them to put on life preservers’. His sister Emma remembered the
same man as a ‘tall, dark figure’, and remembered his exact words as: ‘Get on
your life preservers right away.’ This order surprised both Mock and Emma,
but they started downstairs to get theirs. Emma recalled seeing ‘pale-looking,
silent stewards’ putting life preservers on passengers. Mock remembered that
‘there was no indication of uneasiness’, and indeed many of the passengers
were commenting humorously ‘on the oddity of the figures that their fellow
passengers made with the life preservers around their bodies’.
333
By that time, Edith Rosenbaum had returned to her cabin and undressed
for bed again. She was about to climb under the covers when there came a
knock on her door. She opened it, and discovered that it was a man she had
known in Cannes. ‘There’s an order to put on lifebelts,’ he said. ‘I didn’t think
you’d heard.’
‘What in the world for?’ Edith asked.
‘I haven’t an idea,’ he replied.
Miss Rosenbaum closed the door, ‘wondering why people in their right
minds would choose such a ridiculous hour to hold some sort of silly boat
drill’. She pulled off her nightgown and ‘slipped on a dress, over absolutely
nothing’. Then she wrapped a fur coat about her, took one of the lifebelts from
her room, and slung it over her arm. She started off for the Lounge, amidships
on the same deck.
As she walked, she ran across her Bedroom Steward, Robert Wareham,
‘who came running toward me down the carpeted hall’. He was ‘usually the
picture of British correctness and reserve,’ but seemed more like an ‘agitated
mother hen’ as he said: ‘Thank God you’re here, Miss.’
Edith was distressed at this whole exercise. ‘Well, Wareham,’ she lit in to
him, ‘let me tell you what I think about your ridiculous British regulations.
Imagine getting people …’ Her words choked off in mid-sentence. She thought
she had caught sight of something deep in Wareham’s eyes, and that his voice
sounded unusual. ‘What’s the matter, Wareham? Is there really any danger?’
Wareham began helping her into her lifebelt. ‘Danger, Miss? It’s a rule of
the Board of Trade that even in the threat of danger lifebelts will be donned
by the passengers. Not that I think this ship can sink,’ he added. ‘She’s an
unsinkable ship. Everybody knows that.’ Then he allowed, ‘But if she does go
down, I’m sure we can cheat the drink for about 48 hours.’
Edith Rosenbaum suddenly thought about the ‘trunkloads’ of Paris
fashions she had in the hold. ‘If the Titanic sinks, will they transfer the
luggage?’
By this point, Wareham had finished with the last strap on her belt. ‘Miss,’
he said solemnly, ‘if I were you, I’d go back to your room and kiss your
lovely things goodbye.’
‘Then you think this boat is going to sink, Wareham?’
‘No one thinks anything at a time like this,’ Wareham dodged. ‘We can
only hope – and pray.’
Miss Rosenbaum thought of the toy pig which her mother had given her
which was back in her cabin. When the pig’s tail was turned, a music box
inside played Maxixe. She told Wareham where it was in her cabin, and he
agreed to bring it to her in the Lounge.
When Edith Rosenbaum reached the Lounge, she realized that people were
smiling. She began to feel better when she saw ‘that few shared Wareham’s
apprehensions’, and recalled:
The lounge filled with passengers in various stages of undress, many
of them indignant at being routed out of bed after midnight. I listened
to Col. Washington Roebling, the builder of the Brooklyn Bridge
[sic].
334
‘Whatever the trouble is,’ he said, ‘I doubt there’s any real
emergency. The Titanic has 15 watertight bulkheads which make her
unsinkable. A leak might slow her speed a few knots, but it wouldn’t
do much more than that.’
Eventually Bedroom Steward Wareham caught up with Miss Rosenbaum in
the Lounge. He gave her the little mascot pig which she had treasured so
dearly.
335
Alfred Nourney had taken the opportunity to dash off a few lines to his
mother, and then he returned to his cabin. Once there, he changed from his
evening dress into other clothes, remembering to don a sweater and a vest for
protection from the cold; he put his lifebelt on, as well. Then he packed a
little food and a bottle of whiskey, and headed back off toward the upper
decks.
336
William and Alice Silvey had gone up on deck shortly after the collision.
There, they had been advised to return to their cabins for warmer clothing.
They had done so, and while below Mrs Silvey had gathered up her
valuables. Her husband tucked a ‘nice, red apple’ into her pocket without her
knowledge. However, they did not bring their lifebelts with them when they
left. When they returned to the deck, they were asked to return to their cabin
yet again for their lifebelts.
337
Twenty-two-year-old Helen Ostby remembered that it had been ‘a good
part of an hour’ from the time of the collision until word came for everyone to
get their lifebelts on. She and her father went down to their staterooms to
follow the order. She thought that the lifebelts ‘were very awkward to get on,
since there had been no boat drill and nobody had even thought of trying on
the lifejackets’. However, she recalled that the stewards were very helpful in
getting them into the lifebelts.
338
While Norman Chambers dressed, his wife stood in the doorway to their
cabin, anxious to hear of any further developments. Mr Chambers still did not
believe there was any great danger, but he did take the time to retrieve their
valuables after he dressed. It wasn’t long before she heard a passenger come
down and pass by, saying that orders had been given for passengers to get
their lifebelts on and proceed on deck. Mrs Chambers passed this disturbing
tidbit on to her husband, who was already fully clothed and had his heavy
overcoat on, with ‘certain necessities’ placed into the pockets.
Chambers poked his nose out into the passageway just in time to see their
Bedroom Steward coming down the hallway – the same steward who had
shortly before said that they could return to bed. He asked the steward if this
rumor about needing to don lifebelts really was true, and the steward
confirmed it.
Bertha Chambers was ‘rather alarmed’, but had the presence of mind to
pick up a lifebelt for herself. Norman Chambers opened their steamer trunk
and grabbed ‘a small pocket compass’. Then, sending his wife ahead, he
opened his bag and pocketed his automatic pistol. He followed immediately
after her, and together the couple started up the stairs for the deck.
339
Second Class passenger Dagmar Bryhl had already gone up with her
fiancé Ingvar to investigate the situation. Told that there was no danger,
however, she had returned to bed. After a short time, her fiancé returned to her
door, knocking and yelling: ‘Get up, Dagmar, we are in danger. I don’t care
what the ship’s officers say, I tell you we are in danger of our lives. The boat
is sinking!’
Third Class passenger Rhoda Abbott.
Third Class passenger Rossmore Abbott.
Dagmar again got out of bed, put on her skirt and coat, and ran up on deck.
As they began to interact with some of the others around, she remembered that
someone told them that the ship had hit an iceberg. At some point, the couple
ran across Dagmar’s brother Kurt.
340
Third Class passenger Emily Badman had returned to her cabin to dress,
and to put on a lifebelt, on the advice of a fellow Third Class passenger.
However, she ‘took the whole thing as a joke’, and even put her heavy coat
over the lifebelt so that no one could see that she was wearing it. Next she
turned out and went back up to meet her friend. The pair then hurried up to
‘one of the upper decks’.
341
An alarmed Rhoda Abbott had sent her son Eugene on deck after the
collision to find out what had happened. He returned and told her that people
were putting on lifebelts. The family then got up and began to dress fully.
Once they were dressed, they headed up on deck.
342
Not far away from Rhoda Abbott, Amy Stanley had returned to her cabin,
where Elizabeth Dowdell and Virginia Emanuel were in bed. While on deck,
Amy had received assurances that everything was all right, and had been told
to go back to bed, but she was not about to go back to sleep. Then someone,
probably a steward, came down their hallway, knocking on the doors and
advising passengers to get up. ‘Get hold of a life belt, ladies,’ Elizabeth heard
him say.
Another voice asked the man: ‘Is there any danger?’
Elizabeth heard the response: ‘I fear there is, madam.’
This was quite enough. She got up out of bed and started to dress Virginia.
Amy helped in the effort. However, Elizabeth did not rush, as she did not think
that the situation was serious. ‘I firmly believed the Titanic was unsinkable’,
she later said. Young Virginia was dressed in her outfit from Sunday, and
Elizabeth made sure to put on a heavy gray sweater in addition to her other
things. Then she and Amy turned out of the cabin, with young Virginia in
tow.
343
Laura Cribb and her father John had gone on deck together to talk to some
of their fellow passengers. She remembered:
My father turned to me and said, ‘We will probably have to go out in
the lifeboats for a half hour or so as we have had an accident and they
want to lessen the weight of the ship …’
She also remembered that the ‘captain and some officers came on deck
shouting, “Women and children must get lifebelts on at once, then on deck.” ’
Laura accordingly returned to her cabin and got her lifebelt, and then went to
meet her father again.
344
Lady Lucy Duff Gordon was in her A Deck stateroom dressing in the
warmest clothes that she could find. Before long her secretary, Laura
Francatelli, veritably burst into her room, nearly hysterical. She was wearing
only her nightclothes, a sweater and a long wool motoring coat. She had a
cabin amidships on E Deck, and told her employers that she had seen water in
the corridor as she had come up. ‘And they are taking the covers off the
lifeboats on deck,’ she added.
This news upset Lucy greatly, but her husband told them to remain calm,
and tried to keep them focused by making jokes about how terrible the two
ladies looked in such a hodgepodge of clothing. Lucy apparently gave up on
taking the time to dress warmly. She had on her nightdress and silk kimono.
She put a scarf over her head, and then a squirrel-fur coat over the jumbled
ensemble.
Just then a steward knocked on the door. ‘Sorry to alarm you, Madam, but
the Captain’s orders are that all passengers are to put on lifebelts.’ Lucy
recalled that the steward ‘laughed and joked’ as he helped them to put on their
lifebelts. Then they followed him out into the corridor, Lucy snatching her
handbag up on the way out. She took a last look around her …
… lovely, little room, with its beautiful lace quilt, and pink cushions
and photographs all around, and with a big basket of lilies of the
valley that my ‘Lucile girls’ had given me when I left Paris, on the
table. It all looked so homely and pretty, just like a bedroom on land,
that it did not seem possible there could be any danger.
Then she closed the door. Still left behind in the cabin were all of Lucy’s
jewels and pearls. The trio went aft, toward the First Class Entrance and
Grand Staircase. There they found a throng of people; the group was noisy,
obviously uneasy, but everyone was trying to reassure themselves with
chatting, joking and laughing. They went to move up to the Boat Deck level,
but found a large crowd at the top of the stairs.
345
Colonel Gracie had returned to his room, C-51 on the starboard side.
Once there, he grabbed the two lifebelts provided, and Steward Cullen
fastened one of them on him. Then he brought the other one with him so that it
could be used by someone else. Gracie next headed up toward the Promenade
Deck.
346
At about 12:15 a.m. or so, orders were passed down from the Boat Deck
to begin provisioning the lifeboats. The boats already had hard biscuits and
water in them, but Chief Baker Charles Joughin sent thirteen men up on deck
with four surplus loaves of bread apiece, or roughly ‘40 pounds of bread
each’; then he left the bakery and headed below to his room for a drink.
347
At about 12:20 a.m., Third Officer Pitman joined First Officer Murdoch in
the work on the starboard side lifeboats. Pitman had already seen the ice on
the forward Well Deck, as well as water flooding into the holds through the
hatch forward. These things had been enough to convince the Third Officer
that the situation was very serious. When Pitman arrived, Murdoch ordered
him to start working on Boat No. 5; at that point, the men had just started to
strip the canvas cover off that boat, and Pitman dug into the task at hand.348
Along both sides of the Boat Deck, the men were hard at work: covers
were torn off of boats, grips holding the lifeboats in their positions on the
deck were released, and cranking handles were turned and turned, swinging
the davit arms out into their extended position some sixty feet – no, not quite
that much now for the forward boats as the bow began to settle – above the
black, beckoning sea. There was still no order to load the lifeboats, but the
officers were going to be sure that if it was necessary for them to do so, the
boats would be ready. Second Officer Lightoller recalled of the effort on the
port side, which had been hampered by the racket of venting steam:
It was an utter impossibility to convey an order by word of mouth;
speech was useless, but a tap on the shoulder and an indication with
the hand, dark though it was, was quite sufficient to set the men about
the different jobs, clearing away the boat coves, hauling tight the falls
and coiling them down on deck, clear and ready for lowering.
The passengers by this time were beginning to flock up on the boat
deck, with anxious faces, the appalling din only adding to their anxiety
in a situation already terrifying enough in all conscience. In fact it was
a marvel how they ever managed to keep their heads at all. All one
could do was to give them a cheery smile of encouragement, and hope
that the infernal roar would soon stop. My boats were all along the
port side, and by the time I had got my Watch well employed, stripping
the covers and coiling down, it became obvious to me that the ship
was settling … Soon the Bosun’s Mate came to me and indicated with
a wave of his hand that the job I had set him of clearing away was
pretty well completed. I nodded, and indicated by a motion of my hand
for him to swing out …
By the time all the boats were swung out she was well down
forward, and the water was practically level with the main deck [E].
Even so I still had no thought that she was actually going to founder.
There had been no chance or time to make enquiries, but I figured up
in my own mind that she had probably struck the berg a glancing blow
with the bluff of the bow and opened up one or perhaps two of the
forward compartments, which were filling and putting her down by the
head; also that she would go so far, until she balanced her buoyancy,
and there she would remain. Bulkheads were all new and sound and
should be able to carry the pressure, and there was no reason to
suppose they would not be equal to their task.
349
Chief Baker Charles Joughin.
Crewmen work on Olympic’s starboard Boat Deck. The view looks aft from the vicinity of the crew
staircase down to the Promenade Deck. On the deck, closest to the photographer on the left, is
Collapsible C. To the left, Emergency Boat No. 1 has been swung in over the bulwark rail. Aft of
No. 1, receding into the distance, are Boats Nos 3, 5 and 7. A crewman works to remove the cover
of Boat No. 5. On the deck in the foreground is a collapsible that was not present on Titanic. The
photo gives a good idea of the scene on Titanic’s Boat Deck shortly after midnight.
Interestingly, the davit arms which shared a single frame – in other words, all sets situated between
lifeboats – could only be swung out one at a time. This was because there was only a single shared
crank for turning the two arms to each set out; a switching lever on the frame would have allowed
the crewman operating the crank to select which davit to turn out. However, both could not be
cranked out simultaneously.
However comfortable Lightoller was in his estimation of the ship’s overall
safety, Thomas Andrews was even then below deck. As he assessed the extent
of the damage, a disturbing picture was beginning to emerge for the man who
had helped to design and construct the great ship.
On his way down to his cabin, C-88, Dr Henry Frauenthal passed Harry
Widener, who was in stateroom C-80. As he passed …
… I informed him that I had learned the boat was in danger, but he
said that it was ridiculous. This answer probably describes the mental
state of nearly everyone on the boat, thinking that it was impossible for
anything serious to happen to this paragon of modern ship architecture.
I returned to my cabin, and insisted on my wife putting a life preserver
on.
350
Herbert and Carrie Chaffee had gone on deck after dressing leisurely. They
found no excitement among the passengers there, Mrs Chaffee recalled.
However, she thought that the crew was completely disorganized as they
worked. The couple was soon instructed to put on their lifebelts, and they
headed back below.
351
Doctor Washington Dodge had returned to his stateroom, A-34, after
seeing ice on the forward Well Deck. He had explained everything that he had
seen and heard to his wife, but noticed that the ship was still stationary. It was
clear that something was wrong, so he left their cabin for a third time. On this
trip, he found their Bedroom Steward standing in the center of the First Class
Entrance. Dodge asked the steward if he had heard anything, and the steward
replied that ‘the order had just come down’ for all passengers to don their
lifebelts. Dodge asked the steward ‘if he really meant it’, perhaps thinking it
was some sort of joke. However, the steward replied that he really did mean
what he had said. The steward’s ‘manner’ suggested to Dodge that the order
really had been given. The doctor ‘sprang’ to his stateroom door, just a few
steps away, and told his wife that she needed to dress warmly. It was at that
point that they roused their son, young Washington Dodge, Jr.
352
Saloon Steward Frederick Dent Ray and a number of other Saloon
Stewards had been awakened and told to head to the lifeboats. Ray had
dressed, and had even taken the time to put on his lifebelt. Then he left his
quarters, went aft along Scotland Road, and encountered about twenty others
waiting to head up ‘the back stairway’. He patiently waited his turn, and then
headed up the stairs to C Deck. There he bumped into Second Steward Dodd.
Dodd asked Ray to get a lifebelt for him, so Ray set off in search for one.
353
Norman and Bertha Chambers climbed the forward First Class staircase,
‘passing, at the various landings, people who did not appear to be particularly
frightened’, until they arrived on the Promenade Deck. Then they went to the
port side, and not long afterwards they bumped into the Deck Steward. They
joked with him ‘about opening his little office room’, and managed to procure
their two steamer rugs.
354
After coming up from Benjamin Guggenheim’s cabin, Steward Etches
went forward on A Deck to talk to the steward he was supposed to relieve at
midnight. He found the steward busily assisting passengers; most of the cabin
doors were open at the time. Etches asked the other steward: ‘Have you
called all of your people?’ The steward replied: ‘Yes, but I can’t get them to
dress.’ Etches noticed that many of the passengers were, indeed, standing in
the corridors only ‘partly dressed’. Since this steward was hard at work
where Etches was due to come on duty for the night watch, Etches told the
other steward that he was going to head down to his own regular section of
passengers. In addition to returning as promised to help Mr Guggenheim, there
were others in his section that he had to see to.355
Sidney Collett had been trying to tell people that the accident was rather
serious, as he had seen men working at the lifeboats. However, no one had
really believed him. Not long afterwards, however, he saw people putting
their lifebelts on. Word was beginning to spread that the situation was rather
serious, after all.
356
Frederick and Jane Hoyt had gone back to their cabin, and they ‘both
dressed as warmly as possible’. When they left the deck, they had not heard
any order for passengers to don their lifebelts. However, Jane Hoyt recalled
that ‘a man came up to us just as we were leaving the stateroom and asked us
if we had an extra life preserver.’ Although the couple had not thought about
donning lifebelts before, this convinced Mr Hoyt that they should put their
own lifebelts on. Once they had done this, they headed back up toward the
deck.
357
Captain Smith had personally asked both the Countess of Rothes and
Gladys Cherry to put on their lifebelts. They returned to their stateroom and
looked for their lifebelts, but could not find them. A man passing by came to
their aid, and then a steward lent a hand. Finally they found the belts under the
bed. The steward told them that there was time to dress, and so they did. Once
they were done, they proceeded up to the Boat Deck. Still, no one believed
that there was any real danger.
358
Board of Trade Surveyors and crewmen prepare one of Olympic’s lifeboats.
Crewmen on the Olympic prepare Boat No. 13, working with a block and tackle.
First Class passenger Mauritz Håkan Björnström-Steffansson.
This photo, looking forward along Titanic’s port side Promenade, was taken at about quarter to
ten in the morning of Wednesday, April 10, 1912. This gives a tremendous idea of Gracie’s view as
he awaited orders for what to do next.
When Margaret Brown arrived on the Promenade Deck, she bumped into
her friend Emma Bucknell. Emma was still there, and had been told not long
before that everything seemed to be under control. Still, she couldn’t resist
leaning over to her friend and whispering: ‘Didn’t I tell you something was
going to happen?’
359
Mrs Margaret Swift and her friend Alice Leader had thought that it would
be ‘just as safe to remain on board’, even after hearing from an officer that
they should go up on deck and board the lifeboats. While on deck, however, a
man had pointed out that the ship was listing to starboard; Mrs Swift did not
notice it, however, and she heard someone say that ‘a ship always listed a bit
when one struck anything’. She was still not convinced that leaving the ship
was the better choice.
360
It was probably between 12:15 and 12:20 a.m. that the first strains of
music began to drift throughout the ship. It was apparently coming from the
First Class Entrance forward on the Promenade Deck. The ship’s band now
set to a task that would take a mere two hours, but which would forever exalt
them to the status of heroes. The beat was lively, the tunes consisting of
popular ragtime and waltzes.
Colonel Archibald Gracie had returned to the Promenade Deck after
donning his lifebelt. He found that out ‘on Deck A, port side, towards the
stern, many men and women had already collected.’ He looked around for,
and eventually found, the four ladies that he had promised to care for soon
after departing Southampton: Mrs Charlotte Appleton, Mrs Caroline Brown,
Mrs Malvina Cornell, and Miss Edith Evans. He also found John and
Madeleine Astor, as well as Clinch Smith, Hugh Woolner and Mauritz Håkan
Björnström-Steffansson. Just then, Gracie remembered, ‘the band began to
play … We considered this a wise provision tending to allay excitement.’
Gracie continued to stand in the group on the Promenade Deck.
361
A crowd of First Class passengers in all stages of dress and undress, from
the curious to the nervous, from the jovial to the annoyed, were gathering in
the Lounge. The atmosphere was almost party-like, and the music lifted
everyone’s spirits. It was, as later termed, a ‘fancy dress ball in Dante’s
Hell.’
One Last Performance
Sometime between 12:15 and 12:20 a.m., concerned and confused passengers in First
Class spaces of the ship began to hear the refrain of cheerful music from the band drift
through the corridors of Titanic’s upper decks. The work that the bandsmen did for the
remainder of the night has elevated them to the status of heroes. Even a century on, the
valor they displayed – particularly late in the disaster, when hopes for a rescue had faded
into the icy night – stirs the emotions. It was to be their last performance, and it was one
the world has never forgotten.
Even so, questions surround their final performance. To begin with, how did it come
about that they began playing? First Class passenger Pierre Maréchal reported that they
were ordered to play, and to keep playing to avoid a panic.
362
Perhaps the word ‘order’, as Maréchal used it, comes off a bit strong, however. The
musicians were not directly employed by the White Star Line; they were actually engaged
by the Liverpool-based company of C. W. & F. N. Black, the exclusive agency for the
major steamship lines. Furthermore, the musicians were members of the Amalgamated
Musicians’ Union. And while they were aboard the Titanic as employees of the Blacks,
they were actually categorized as Second Class passengers. As such, they were not
crewmen who were required to follow orders. Stewardess Sarah Stap thought that they
‘were not asked to play, but did it absolutely of their own initiative.’
363
Most likely, the truth lies somewhere in between Maréchal and Stap. It is probable that
to begin with, Chief Purser McElroy – or perhaps even Captain Smith himself – thought
that it would be wise to have the orchestra play in order to keep passengers calm, and
asked them to come up and set to the task.
If this is the way their final performance began, it must have taken some minutes for
word to be sent down to the musicians in their staterooms, for them to turn out with their
instruments, and to make their way topside and forward. It seems to have been just after
12:10 a.m. that Stewardess Violet Jessop spotted violinist Wallace Hartley, John Hume and
other members of the band headed up the forward Grand Staircase with their
instruments.
364
This would indicate that the request to have them come up and begin playing had been
made as early as midnight. At that point, it was clear that the ship was damaged; steam
was blowing off from the boilers; concerned and anxious passengers were beginning to
wake up and come on deck in growing numbers; the crew was also given the preemptive
order to start uncovering and preparing the lifeboats in case they would be needed. With
the ship not getting under way any time soon, it would have been paramount to keep
passengers calm while the crew investigated the damage and worked on the boats, in order
to quell any signs of panic.
If the request was actually made of them, Hartley and his men most likely felt that
pitching in would be the best thing that they could do under the circumstances. When they
started to play, there was no obvious indication of impending doom. Later on, when the
ship’s peril was more obvious, they would certainly have known that they had every right
to try to save themselves, to cast their instruments aside and make a break for it. However,
there is no record that they did so.
365
One passenger, Algernon Barkworth, said that he had seen the place where the band
had been playing empty, their instruments left behind.
366 However, there is evidence that
at some point after they had begun to play, the bandsmen took a break and went below to
get their lifebelts, and perhaps to don warmer clothing. Very likely when they did this, they
left some or all of their instruments behind – the piano, obviously, would be a fantastic
candidate for this – as well as their music stands and sheet music, in order to make the trip
more easily. It is possible, then, that Barkworth made his observation during this break.
Lawrence Beesley said that he saw one of the cellists come up to the Boat Deck
through the Second Class Entrance, with his cello, at about 12:40 a.m. Beesley then
watched as the cellist ran down the deck toward the bow with the instrument’s spike
dragging on the deck. Perhaps this was a sighting of a musician who was late to join his
friends, since he was carrying his cello. Yet if he was going up for his first rendezvous with
his fellow musicians, and the timing of Beesley’s sighting was correct, then this would
mean that he was nearly a half hour late to the performance. Another possibility is that this
cellist was returning from the trip to get his lifebelt; however, it seems unlikely that a cellist
would have taken his bulky instrument with him while going below to put on warmer
clothes and perhaps fetch or put on a lifebelt.
367
Whether they all went to get their lifebelts at the same time, or whether they did so in
shifts, we know that they reconvened and began playing again. Many statements suggest
that they continued playing right up until the final minutes of the disaster. They were not
required to do so, yet they continued to play – it must have simply seemed to them to be
the right thing to do, the best way they could contribute in a positive way to the situation.
Should They Have Kept Playing?
Shortly after the musicians began their performance, or at about 12:25 a.m., it became
clear to Captain Smith that the Titanic was going to founder. At this point, he could have
ordered Chief Purser McElroy to have the musicians stop playing; while he had no
authority to compel them to keep playing, he certainly could have requested that they stop
doing so. Such a move might have impressed the seriousness of the situation to passengers,
prompting them to enter the lifeboats when asked by the officers; theoretically, this move
might have maximized the carrying capacity of the boats, while not unnecessarily delaying
the launching of the boats on a restricted timetable.
If such a thought ever occurred to Captain Smith or anyone else in authority, it was
never followed through on, for the musicians would never have disobeyed such an order. In
light of the half-empty boats which left the ship early on, it has in recent years been
suggested that having the band continue playing was a poor decision. Because the music of
the ship’s band lulled passengers into a false sense of security, the argument goes, many
passengers chose not to leave the ship, thus adding to the death toll.
However, the Captain and others who were in charge of the evacuation were also
painfully aware of a dreadful fact: there was no room in the lifeboats for over a thousand
of those aboard. Preventing a panic was thus even more important than it had been at
around midnight, when the situation did not seem so desperate. Lives were on the line, time
was short, and order had to be maintained. The ship’s officers were all very concerned
with preventing panic; whether they knew the ship was sinking or did not, loading lifeboats
at night is a dangerous process, and disorder could easily lead to injuries or deaths.
Overall, things stayed relatively calm during the first portion of the evacuation.
However, as early as the loading of Boat No. 5, officers were heard threatening to get
their guns in order to keep the situation under control. Boat No. 5 was the second boat to
leave the liner, at 12:45. This was only twenty-five to thirty minutes after the band began to
play, and only about twenty minutes after Captain Smith discovered that his ship was
doomed. Toward the end, things became even more critical. It was then becoming clear
that there were not many lifeboats left and that the ship would sink soon. At that time,
there were numerous reports that the officers in charge had trouble maintaining control and
order.
In short, the band’s music was extremely helpful in allaying a panic which would almost
certainly have resulted in deaths or injuries. Simultaneously, many of the ship’s officers
were giving similar signals of reassurance to passengers. They told many passengers that
the launching of the lifeboats was all ‘only a precaution’. If at any point, while they were
hunting for passengers to fill the early boats, Captain Smith or the officers felt that the
band’s music was lulling the passengers into an apathetic state that would cost lives, they
could easily have asked them to stop playing, but they did not. They were all working
toward a common goal – maintaining calm – via different methods.
It is also clear that the ship’s officers were more concerned, as they loaded those early
lifeboats, with getting the boats clear of the deck and into the water than they were with
actually filling them. If passengers were handy and willing to get in, fine; if not, the boats
were lowered anyway. There was still a method behind the madness, though. A number of
times, these same officers ordered boats to come around and take off additional
passengers from lower deck gangways. Although these plans later fell apart when time ran
out, that was through no fault of the ship’s bandsmen. It was instead symptomatic of the
short amount of time the officers had in which to carry out their work.
So how did those present that night feel about the band’s efforts? Colonel Archibald
Gracie considered the music of the ship’s band to be ‘a wise provision tending to allay
excitement’. Many other survivors expressed similar sentiments of gratitude for the results
of the band’s work. But perhaps the final word on this should come from the senior
surviving officer, Charles Lightoller. He wrote in his autobiography that at about the time
he was loading one of the early lifeboats …
… I could hear the band playing cheery sort of music. I don’t like jazz music as a
rule, but I was glad to hear it that night. I think it helped us all.
368
Although the terminology Lightoller used later on was incorrect – jazz did not emerge as a
style until a number of years after the Titanic’s sinking – his sentiment was clear.
Who Played, And Where Did They Play From?
Another question about the band’s efforts that night presents itself: how many played,
and where did they play from? As there were really two separate ensembles, did they all
play together? The most likely answer is yes. Yet how did two pianists work at a single
instrument at the locations where they played? This conundrum is easily solved; perhaps
the pianists traded off for different numbers. However, even more important is the
knowledge that some of the musicians were able to play different instruments, and it is
known that some of them carried one or more extra instruments with them. Thus it is
possible the extra piano player may have played a different instrument instead. As the men
had spent much time together during the voyage, there seems to have been a spirit of
camaraderie among them even before the disaster. Even if there were more players than
were needed, it seems likely that they tried to stick together.
This leaves the other portion of the question: Where did they play from? It has been
suggested that they played in the Lounge on A Deck to begin with. In one account, Emma
Schabert said that after the order was given for passengers to don their lifebelts she and
her brother saw the band playing in ‘the drawing room’.
369 There was no room officially
called the ‘drawing room’ on the Titanic, so perhaps this was a reference to the First
Class Lounge. We know that the Entrance on the Boat and Promenade Decks became
quite congested as more passengers began showing up and were waiting for the lifeboats.
So it is possible that for a time the Lounge seemed to be the better place for them to play.
However, there was no piano in the Lounge on A Deck.
370 Also, when Gracie made his
complete tour of the public rooms on A Deck, sometime after 12:40, he did not mention
seeing the band there. Neither did he mention hearing them elsewhere as he passed up to
the Boat Deck.
371
Pierre Maréchal also reported that the band was first stationed ‘on the deck, that is to
say, between the decks [on A Deck]’.
372 Stewardess Katherine Gold saw them shortly
before she left the ship in Boat No. 11; at the time, she noticed that ‘men were sitting on A
deck … tapping time with their feet to the music of the band. These passengers and the
bandsmen, too, had their lifebelts beside them, and I was specially struck by a glimpse of a
violinist playing steadily with a great lifebelt in front of him.’
373
However, the band was also spotted playing on the Boat Deck level of the First Class
Entrance. A Steinway upright piano was supplied at that location, and it was an excellent
place from which to play so their music would be heard by those outside. May Futrelle
recalled that just before the launch of Boat No. 9 at 1:30 a.m. the …
… orchestra had come out on the Boat Deck, where there was a piano, at about
the time when they launched the fourth boat [Boat No. 4, which she nearly
boarded]. As we made our way across the deck they were playing ‘Alexander’s
Ragtime Band’ – to keep us moving, I suppose.
374
The initial wording of this statement might indicate a position on the open Boat Deck.
However, upon closer inspection, she also said there was a piano where the band was then
playing. The only piano on the Boat Deck was inside the Entrance. Her reference could
only have referred to the Boat Deck level of the Entrance.
In one of her interviews, Second Class passenger Elizabeth Nye reportedly claimed to
have seen the band playing in water up to their knees at the end.
375 However, Nye was in
Boat No. 11, about a quarter-mile from the starboard-aft quarter of the Titanic at the
time.
376
In other words, she was probably too far away to make out much detail about
individual forms on the liner’s decks; she was also in completely the wrong quarter of the
ship to have seen the band playing where they are traditionally alleged to have played
from.
Trimmer Thomas Patrick Dillon gave one newspaper account in which he said that a
solo bandsman kneeling and playing ‘Nearer, My God, to Thee’ was the last thing he saw
before jumping from the ship. Yet other evidence that Dillon gave indicates that he
remained on the Poop Deck well after the ship broke up. So if he timed the sighting
accurately, this meant that a single bandsman ran to a point aft of the break on the decks,
held on to his instrument through the stern’s gyrations, and then began or resumed a tune in
those final few seconds – all a very unlikely possibility.
Other, similar statements which appeared in the papers shortly after the disaster must
be treated with a measure of skepticism. Conclusions can only be drawn if the passengers
were close enough and also in a position to see what they reported, and when multiple
statements also seem to form some sort of consensus.
If all of this sounds confusing, it certainly is. Even the ‘fact’ – repeated time and again
in books, documentaries and films – that the band played outside on the port Boat Deck,
outside the First Class Entrance, suffers a curious lack of first-hand documentation.
Indeed, this legend is fraught with complications. First, the change in temperature from
the ship’s interior spaces would have required a re-tuning of all of the stringed instruments,
and perhaps more than one tuning as the instruments and strings continued to cool. Second,
the piano would not have been available on the Boat Deck. There was no way to get the
piano on the Boat Deck level of the Entrance out onto the deck. It was well fastened down
to prevent it from moving in bad weather, there was also a high sill in the doorway leading
in from the deck, and also a ninety-degree turn to negotiate in the small vestibule. On a
sloping deck in the freezing cold, moving the piano outside seems an absolute absurdity.
377
Added to that, there would have been no place for the cellists to sit. Perhaps, it has
been suggested, chairs were found and brought out? Possibly, but then again playing these
strings instruments required complex fingering; the freezing cold would not have lent itself
to a lengthy performance, since fingers would quickly have grown numb and senseless.
Beyond that, there was not much light on the deck; enough to make out who someone was
talking with, perhaps, but not much more. There were at least two lights on the bulkheads
in the vicinity, and some diffuse lighting coming out from the Entrance windows. Still, it
was not very much, and would not have been evenly dispersed. If the bandsmen stood with
their backs to the light so the light could shine on their music, shadows would also have
been a problem. In this scenario, is the band supposed to have squinted at their sheet music
through dim lighting and shadows? Or did they play from memory? The latter would be
more likely, but in light of all of the other complications a move out onto the Boat Deck
would have entailed, placing the band there for any length of time simply does not seem
viable.
We do know that passengers in the lifeboats and on the decks on both sides of the ship
said that they could hear music playing; that alone might suggest that they were
somewhere on an open deck. But there is a direct lack of first-hand accounts referring to
them in their traditionally-named location. Beyond that, the acoustics were tremendously
good that night – the air was still and cold, and sounds could carry across the water clearly,
at least over short distances. When the venting of steam ended, there was very little
screaming or crying on the decks, at least until late in the sinking, and little in the way of
machinery or equipment noise. Knowing these factors, even if the band was inside they
could most likely have been heard in the lifeboats on both sides of the ship for some
distance.
On the other hand, there is evidence that the band remained inside. The testimony of
Steward Edward Brown is very enlightening. Brown was on the starboard side Boat Deck
helping in efforts to launch Collapsible A; he said he saw the Captain walk by with a
megaphone in his hand, telling the crewmen to do their ‘best for the women and children’.
Only ‘a very few seconds’ later, the ship took her plunge. Brown was next asked about
what the band was doing ‘at the last’. He replied: ‘I do not remember hearing the band
stop playing. They were playing for a long time, but I do not remember hearing them stop.’
When asked where the band was gathered, he said: ‘Right on the forward companion on
the very top – on the boat deck forward companion.’
In nautical parlance, a ‘companion’ has to do with a stairway leading down below
within a ship. Many other survivors called the First Class Grand Staircase and Entrance
Foyers the ‘companionway’. Brown’s choice of words in this sentence speaks volumes.
He says that they were ‘on the very top’ of the ‘forward companion’. This would make
little sense if they were outside on the deck. The phrase ‘on the very top’ likely means the
top of the Grand Staircase, also known as the ‘forward companion’.
When the Solicitor-General added that that location was ‘between the first and second
funnels’, he was correct. However, that statement does not necessarily imply that they
were outside on the deck. If they were outside the Entrance on the deck, that location was
actually beside the No. 2 funnel, not between the two forward funnels. However, the
Grand Staircase and First Class Entrance was between the two funnels; it seems that the
Solicitor- General understood the reference to mean the top of the staircase in the First
Class Entrance.
So far, there may have been some room to debate the time of this sighting. Yet Brown
added that the band was playing while he was working on getting Collapsible A down from
the Officers’ Quarters Roof, just a few seconds before his final sighting of Captain Smith.
This was only moments before the ship took its downward plunge.
378
The bodies of three of the musicians were later recovered, and this may indicate their
final movements were to turn out of the First Class Entrance, probably through the port
doorway. If this hypothesis is correct, it is unknown whether they brought their instruments
out onto the deck with them and, if so, if they played in those final moments on the open
deck at about 2:15 a.m.
When the ship took its forward plunge, it sent a wave of water up the deck which
engulfed anyone forward of midships. It is likely that some or all of the musicians went into
the sea with the first plunge. The deck’s incline grew quickly from that point on, making
progress toward the stern after the plunge difficult, if not impossible. As the bandsmen
went into the sea, their final and most famous performance had come to a sudden and
tragic conclusion.
In his D Deck cabin, Lawrence Beesley’s reading was interrupted yet
again by a ‘loud shout from above: “All passengers on deck with lifebelts
on.” ’
Beesley placed the two books he was reading in his jacket pocket, picked
up his lifebelt and his dressing gown, and then walked upstairs, tying his
lifebelt on as he went. As he headed up, he saw …
… the purser’s assistant, with his foot on the stairs about to climb
them, whisper to a steward and jerk his head significantly behind him;
not that I thought anything of it at the time, but I have no doubt he was
telling him what had happened up in the bows, and was giving him
orders to call all passengers.
Beesley didn’t have much time to think about this, however, for just then two
ladies were coming down the stairs. One of them grabbed Beesley’s arm and
told him that she had no lifebelt. She asked if he would go to her cabin with
her to help find it. Beesley agreed, and went down to F Deck with her, amused
as the lady continued to cling to his arm ‘in a vise-like grip’ all the way.
Finally, they found a steward in her gangway who took them in and found their
lifebelts. His services no longer required, Beesley turned around and headed
back up the stairs.
379
Meanwhile, Lookouts Hogg and Evans had been on watch in the Crow’s
Nest for about twenty minutes. Although there was very little to do while they
were on this watch, it must have been a peculiar start to their duties that night:
a collision … ice on the Well Deck … going up to the Nest … hearing steam
blow off from the engines …
The two men were understandably curious about what was going on. They
couldn’t hear any of the activity over the sound of escaping steam. Nor could
they simply turn around and look aft to the decks below, as the canvas weather
screen was in place. Finally, the two of them ‘lifted up the back cover of the
nest, the weather cover’, and Hogg noticed that there were ‘people running
about with life belts on’.
Something serious was going on, and they were being completely left out
of the loop. Hogg recalled:
I went to the telephone then, to try to ring up on the bridge and ask
whether I was wanted in the nest, when I saw this. I could get no
answer on the telephone.
That they received no answer is not at all surprising, for the ship’s officers
were very busy at the time. Unsatisfied, the two lookouts decided to leave
their post and go to the Boat Deck.
380
Down below, Greaser Fred Scott had been stationed on the starboard side
of the Turbine Engine Room. He had felt a ‘shock’, and then heard the engine
telegraph order change to ‘Stop’. He had subsequently noticed a number of
further orders for the engines before they were finally rung off for good.
A little while after the engines were stopped for the last time, Scott and
another crewman headed aft. They opened up the individual watertight doors
astern of the Turbine Engine Room to free a Greaser who had been caught in
the after tunnel when the watertight doors were closed. The man in the tunnel
could not have been terribly alarmed at being shut in the tunnel behind the
doors, however; there were escape ladders leading from the tunnel up to E
Deck, and he does not seem to have used them. Scott estimated that the effort
to open the doors took about ten minutes, and that he then returned to the
Turbine Room.
381
It was at about this time that the full, grim picture of what was really
happening to the Titanic came into focus for Thomas Andrews. He was still
observing the extent and rate of flooding in the forward compartments.
Andrews had already been aware that the second, third, and fourth
compartments starting from the bow – Cargo Holds Nos 1, 2 and 3 – were
flooding uncontrollably. Forward of those, while the Forepeak Storeroom was
undamaged, the Forepeak Tank below it – with a capacity of 190 tons – was
also flooded, adding critical forward weight. Finally, Boiler Room No. 6, the
fifth compartment starting from the bow, was also flooding fast and was a lost
cause.
It all added up to an absurdly simple yet absolutely horrifying
mathematical conclusion: the ship was doomed. Andrews turned and headed
above quickly, no doubt looking for Captain Smith. Inquisitive passengers and
crew had by this time gathered in the public spaces of their respective
classes, in various stages of dress and undress. Some were alarmed, while
others merely believed that it was the most exciting event of an otherwise
unremarkable maiden voyage. Some of these spotted Andrews as he came up.
Around 12:22 a.m., First Class passenger Anna Warren saw Andrews
rushing up the Grand Staircase on D Deck, taking the steps three at a time,
with ‘a look of terror’ on his face. Just after this, First Class passenger
William Sloper – who had gathered with Pauline Gibson and Frederic
Seward in the First Class Entrance – saw Andrews rushing up the Grand
Staircase on A Deck, hurrying towards the Bridge. Although Andrews said
nothing, ‘one look at his face’ convinced Sloper that the ship’s designer was
‘worried’.
382 Albert and Vera Dick saw their table companion coming up
from below as well. They had seen him go down on his inspection, and
waited for him to return:
As the minutes flew by we did not know what to do or which way to
turn … and we waited for Mr Andrews to come back.
When he came we hung upon his words, and they were these:
‘There is no cause for any excitement. All of you get what you can in
the way of clothes and come on deck as soon as you can. She is torn to
bits below, but she will not sink if her after bulkheads hold.’
It seemed almost impossible that this could be true … and many in
the crowd smiled, thinking this was merely a little extra knowledge
that Mr Andrews saw fit to impart.
383
Andrews certainly seemed far less willing to answer questions as he came up
from below than he had been in going down to inspect the damage. Earlier, he
had even stopped to try and calm people’s nerves. With the exception of the
Dicks, as he made his way up the stairs it seems that he almost universally
brushed past people and ignored their queries; he was intent on getting to
Captain Smith as quickly as he could. As he went up the stairs and moved
forward along the deck, Andrews must have wondered how, exactly, he was
going to break the bad news to the Captain.
By that time, the bow had settled noticeably into the sea; the water had
reached portholes that were originally twenty feet above the waterline on the
bow. At about 12:25 a.m., the Seamen’s Quarters on E Deck, some forty-eight
feet above the keel, flooded. Seaman John Poingdestre was in the quarters at
that time. He had been up on deck clearing the covers off the lifeboats, but
went below to put his boots on. While there, the wooden bulkhead separating
the Seamens’ Quarters from Third Class passenger space collapsed, and
water flooded the compartment to a depth of three feet. Poingdestre had to
wade through freezing water up to his waist in order to escape, getting out in
‘a matter of half a minute’. He quickly made his way back to the Boat Deck.
384
Somewhere around 12:25 am, Smith and Andrews apparently conferred
on the Bridge …385
the situation was grave: the sea was filling the forward
six watertight compartments. Fortunately, the water was still being kept down
in the aft-most of these, Boiler Room No. 5, but as Andrews had seen firsthand, the forward five compartments were flooding uncontrollably. The
Titanic had been designed to survive with the forward four compartments
flooding – but not all five. The water in the forward five compartments would
pull the ship’s bow down until it would spill over the top of the next
bulkhead. Once that compartment had flooded, she would settle by the head
enough that the next compartment, too, would flood. This process would
continue until the ship had sunk.
The conversation must have been grim; both men knew only too well that
the Titanic didn’t have enough lifeboats for everyone aboard. In fact, of the
2,208 passengers and crew on board, there was only enough room in the
lifeboats for 1,178. Smith asked Andrews how long the Titanic could stay
afloat, and was presented with another problem. After some quick calculating,
Andrews told Smith that he believed she could last for an hour, perhaps an
hour and a half, but not much longer.
386
This last statement, in particular, must have been earth-shattering for the
Captain. Perhaps his initial hope was that she would last as long as the
Republic had three years before … maybe he had hoped to have a day, but at
least if the ship could have held out until morning, the situation would be
much improved. By then a veritable flotilla of nearby vessels would have had
time to arrive and aid in the evacuation. But an hour to an hour and a half …?
What might have seemed absurd only an hour before was now a ghastly
reality. The problems of carrying out a full evacuation in the time left were
evident, but the situation was inescapable and there was no time to lose …
The conversation must have ended quickly. Captain Smith gave the order to
begin loading the women and children into the boats.
387 Able Bodied Seaman
John Poingdestre made his way back to the Boat Deck just in time to hear this
order being given.
388
Although it may seem like this was an unconscionably long period of time
for Captain Smith to have waited before ordering passengers to board the
lifeboats, there were some good reasons for waiting until he was certain of
the ship’s fate. First of all, the crew had only had about twenty-five minutes to
prepare the lifeboats for loading up to that time; some of the boats were still
sitting on the deck at that point. It was a loud, rather dangerous bit of work,
and keeping the passengers from getting under the crew’s feet as they worked
might have prevented injuries and perhaps have expedited the process.
However, whatever the condition of the boats, it would have been foolish
for the Captain to have ordered the passengers to begin boarding the lifeboats
before he knew for sure just how hopeless the situation was. As Second
Officer Lightoller later recalled:
Although the boats and falls were all brand new, it is a risky business
at the best of times to attempt to lower a boat between seventy and
eighty feet at night time, filled with people who are not ‘boatwise’. It
is, unfortunately, the rule rather than the exception for some mishap to
occur in lowering the boats loaded with people who, through no fault
of their own, lack this boat sense.
389
Only after this dreadful conversation between Andrews and Captain Smith
was it clear that this risk was going to have to be faced. The only thing to do
then was to try to get as many people off the ship as they could in the time
available. Even as Captain Smith got this project under way, Andrews left the
Bridge. The ship’s designer seems to have proceeded below deck in order to
help prepare the passengers for evacuation.
Captain Smith immediately moved aft to the Marconi room. Barely putting
his head in the door, Smith told Jack Phillips and Harold Bride to ‘send the
call for assistance.’ Phillips asked, ‘What call should I send?’ Smith told him
‘the regulation call for help. Just that.’ Then he left again, leaving the two men
with a startling order, very little explanation, and a weighty responsibility to
discharge.
Phillips, being the Senior Operator, naturally took the key from his
assistant. At 10:25 p.m. New York Time, or 12:27 a.m. according to the
Titanic’s clocks, he began tapping out the fateful message.
390
It was the
international call for distress and the wireless call letters assigned to the
Titanic, and the simple message that Phillips sent would soon become
famous:
‘CQD…CQD…CQD…CQD…CQD…CQD…MGY.…’
About a half-dozen times the signal rasped out of the key, up through the
aerials suspended far above the funnel tops, and out into the cold, black night.
This was followed by the position: 41° 44’ N, 50° 24’ W.
391
An illustration of a Marconi Operator at work on a set of the period.
This detail view of the cover painting from this volume shows the scene at 1:50 a.m. Titanic’s bow is
mostly awash, and work is proceeding at Boats Nos 4 and 10 on the port side, while Boat No. 2
has just reached the water.

B
CHAPTER 5
THE LOSING BATTLE
12:25 a.m.- – 12:40 a.m.
y the time the first distress call was sent at 12:27 a.m., things were
beginning to move forward on the Titanic’s Boat Deck.
1 All of the
officers were by then up and about and ready to assist; crew members were
also beginning to show up on the deck in growing numbers. As a team, they
began to move purposefully toward the lifeboats. However, it was like trying
to get a steam locomotive started from a dead stop; the momentum of getting
the ship’s sixteen standard lifeboats ready had to build, even as more and
more men showed up to pitch in and the officers began to take charge of what
was going on. Hindering the efforts was the fact that many crewmembers,
even after turning out and being told that there was an accident, were not
aware of the urgency of the situation, and had not been told that the ship was
doomed.
After Fourth Officer Boxhall had awakened the remaining officers, he
went out onto the Boat Deck and helped to unlace some of the canvas covers
on the lifeboats. He noticed men turning out on the stern section of the port
side as well, and was about to head aft to see how they were doing when he
heard ‘someone report a light, a light ahead’. This information seemed to
catch his attention, and he turned back toward the Bridge to investigate.
2
Before he was able to do so, he ran across Captain Smith, and the two men
conversed briefly. Boxhall asked the Captain: ‘Should I send a distress
signal?’
Smith replied: ‘I’ve already sent a distress signal.’
At this, a concern cropped up in Boxhall’s mind. ‘What, what position did
you send it from?’ he asked hesitantly.
‘From the eight o’clock DR [dead reckoning fix],’ Smith replied.
Boxhall replied that the celestial fix had indicated that ‘she was about
twenty miles ahead of’ the dead reckoning position.
Smith suggested that Boxhall check the position he had worked out.
3
Before the two men parted, the Captain asked Boxhall how the work was
progressing on the boats. Boxhall told him: ‘Yes, they are carrying on all
right.’ Then he asked the Captain directly: ‘Is it really serious?’
Smith responded just as directly: ‘Mr Andrews tells me he gives her from
an hour to an hour and a half.’4
With this stunning news fresh in mind, Boxhall headed directly into the
Navigating Room just aft of the Bridge; there, he used the stellar observation
taken around 7:30 p.m. to work out their location.
In the meanwhile, the first distress messages – sent from the Titanic
starting at 12:27 a.m. ship’s time – were immediately overheard by the Cape
Race, Newfoundland, station, as well as by the ships La Provence and Mount
Temple. At 12:30, the Ypiranga overheard a series of about ten calls of
‘CQD’, followed by the position and the words: ‘Require assistance.’5 Word
was beginning to spread, but it was difficult for anyone to comprehend the
reality of what was taking place.
In the First Class Lounge, Edith Rosenbaum had just been listening to
Washington Roebling tell her that the Titanic was entirely unsinkable. Right
afterward ‘a deck officer’ came to the Lounge door: ‘Women and children
will kindly proceed to the boat deck,’ he called out. Just to make sure he was
understood, he repeated: ‘Women and children only.’6
‘When the order came for women and children to take to the lifeboats’,
William and Alice Silvey had realized for the first time that the situation was
serious. Even then, ‘the probability that the ship would sink was incredible.’
At that point, she thought that putting the women and children off in the
lifeboats was only a precautionary measure. However, Mrs Silvey objected to
leaving her husband. He told her that ‘to obey orders was the only course’. He
also said that while there was no danger, if it became necessary, he would
follow her in another lifeboat after the women and children were taken off.
7
Helen Ostby and her father Engelhart had bumped into their acquaintances
from Portland, Oregon, Frank and Anna Warren, after putting their lifebelts on.
Together, they ascended the Grand Staircase to the Boat Deck, also having
heard the order to proceed to the lifeboats. Helen recalled that everyone
thought that they ‘would be just going off in the lifeboats for a short time, as a
precaution, [and] then would probably come back to the ship.’ When they got
out onto the deck, ‘the noise of the ship blowing off steam from all four
funnels was a deafening roar. You could hardly hear anyone speak to you.’
They watched as the crew prepared the lifeboats.
8
First Class passenger Washington Roebling.
Back in their stateroom, Jacques and May Futrelle had dressed quickly but
thoroughly. Jacques put on all of his clothes and his eyeglasses, while May
took the time to fasten all of her clothes properly, don a fur coat and gloves,
and then put a blanket over her arm. Then they were ready to leave … May
had heard of people in lifeboats at sea going nearly mad from thirst, so she
took a drink of water just to be on the safe side. When she asked her husband
if he wanted one, he told her he had just done so. Then they turned out to the
hallway and started forward.
This plan of Titanic’s Boat Deck shows the location of eighteen of her twenty lifeboats.
Collapsibles A and B were located on the roof of the Officers’ Quarters, abreast of the No. 1
funnel.
Upon reaching the First Class Entrance by the Purser’s Office, May could
feel, rather than see, that the ship ‘was not riding the water as before’, and
they could hear talk of the lifeboats. This was too much for May, and she
‘broke down’ for a moment. Her husband tried to reassure her, and took her to
the nearby notice-board. He pointed to all of the daily bulletins and showed
her that they had ‘sighted seven ships that day’. Then he said: ‘Someone will
come to secure us, of course.’
‘But if we have to take to the boats we’ll go together, won’t we?’ May
asked.
‘I suppose so,’ he said quietly.
By that point, they could hear the creaking of the lifeboat davits overhead
… Then they began heading up toward the Boat Deck.
9
Mrs Bucknell had been on deck for some time; not long before she had
heard the rumor that the damage was only minor, and that the watertight doors
were being closed. Since then, she had moved across to the port side of the
ship. Now she heard the order ‘for the women and the men to separate’. Just
then, she saw Mr and Mrs Astor; at the time, they were standing together on
the port side. When the order came through, however, they left for the
starboard side. She saw that the Colonel was ‘bending over her as they
walked’. She also saw the Wideners leave the area with the Astors.
10
Meanwhile, things were beginning to move very quickly for many of the
crew. The stewards and stewardesses from all three classes, including First
Class Stewardess Violet Jessop, were called upon to find the passengers in
their care and to make sure they were sent topside wearing warm clothing.
They also had to help passengers into their lifebelts – something quite
unexpected on this maiden voyage. To aid this effort, some were stationed at
various high-traffic areas such as the forward Grand Staircase, to make sure
that errant passengers – if they had somehow escaped the assistance of their
own cabin stewards and stewardesses – were cared for before reaching the
upper decks.
George Rheims and his brother-in-law Joseph Loring were still talking
when someone – apparently Thomas Andrews – came by and told them to put
their lifebelts on. The two men parted company to return to their respective
cabins. Rheims ‘went down’ to his A Deck cabin, ‘put on some warm
clothing’ as well as his lifebelt, and then he returned to the Boat Deck, where
he re-joined Joseph Loring. The two men decided that they were going to stick
together from that time forward.11
Thomas Andrews had just come from his sobering conversation with the
Captain when he seems to have come across Rheims and Loring; then he
continued down on to A Deck. There, he helped crewmembers who were
trying to get the passengers roused, dressed and up on deck with their lifebelts
on. He came across Stewardess Annie Robinson, who had just finished getting
the extra blankets and lifebelts out of the unoccupied rooms at the foot of the
staircase. Andrews told her: ‘Put your lifebelt on and walk about and let the
passengers see you.’
The stewardess protested, saying, ‘It looks rather mean.’
Andrews’ reply was firm. He said: ‘No, put it on.’ Then he added: ‘Well,
if you value your life put your belt on.’12
The shipbuilder had already told Stewardess Mary Sloan that an accident
had happened, and that she should get her passengers’ lifebelts on, get one for
herself, and then get everyone up on deck. At around the same time that
Andrews came across Annie Robinson, Miss Sloan recalled seeing him again.
He was ‘here, there and everywhere, looking after everybody, telling the
women to put on lifebelts, telling the stewardesses to hurry the women up to
the boats, all about everywhere, thinking of everyone but himself.’13
Elmer Taylor had certainly had an interesting time of things since the
collision. He had waited ten or fifteen minutes after the impact and the
engines’ stopping before he bothered to put on some clothes. After dressing,
he had gone forward on A Deck, where he saw the ice on the forward Well
Deck. Scooping up a piece, he returned to his cabin to show it his wife Juliet.
Next, he went to his friend’s cabin, and talked with him for a few minutes
before returning to his own cabin again.
As he walked ‘along the corridor, an officer came from the opposite
direction’, and told him: ‘Go to your cabin, put on your life belt and proceed
to the Boat Deck.’ Taylor thought that this was ‘sheer stupidity’, and told his
wife so when he got back to their stateroom. Then he ‘hesitated, thought
again’, and told his wife to dress and to put on her fur coat.
14
Elsewhere, when William Mellors reached deck, he found crowds of
passengers already there, putting on their lifebelts. Mellors ‘had about 15
mins [sic] hard work tying the women’s belts on’.
15
Things were far less organized in Third Class regions of the ship. By this
point, many Third Class men in the bow section of the liner had quite literally
been chased out of their cabins by rising water. In response, they either moved
aft, to higher and drier areas of the ship, or up to the forward Well Deck. As
they migrated up and aft, many of them were carrying all of their belongings.
However, not everyone had such a great sense of urgency. In the Third
Class Smoking Room aft, beneath the Poop Deck, August Wennerström and
Gunnar Tenglin arrived and found the bar closed and nothing for them to do.
August and some of the other passengers got someone to play the piano, and
started to dance. Just then, a group of ‘Italian’ passengers arrived, presumably
from the bow, carrying their belongings and acting ‘crazy, crying and jumping,
calling upon their Madonna’. Thinking them panicked for no reason,
Wennerström and the others poked fun at them, forming a ring dance around
them. Some stewards, annoyed at the panicked passengers, told them to take
off their lifebelts, as nothing was wrong. When the passengers showed no sign
of complying because of the language barrier, Wennerström said that the
crewmembers physically removed the lifebelts from these poor, frightened
people. Some of the Third Class passengers who had been joking with them
joined in and also started to remove the lifebelts from off their backs.
16
Similarly, Saloon Steward Littlejohn and his crewmates laughed at the
steerage passengers when they saw them lugging their belongings aft along the
corridors. They thought they were unnecessarily scared, but then they noticed
their clothes were wet, indicating that their quarters were flooding.
17
Third Class passenger Eugene Daly.
Carl Olof Jansson was one of the passengers who had been forced to
escape aft. He was initially awakened by the collision with the iceberg, which
he described as a ‘slight jar’. Hearing no panic or alarm, he had gone back to
sleep. Now, he and his companions were awakened for a second time by a
knock on the door; they were told to dress and come on deck – there had been
an accident, but ‘there was no danger’. As Jansson started to dress, water
began coming into the cabin, and ‘creeping up’ around his feet. As he threw
on his clothes, the water began rushing in, and was soon up to his ankles.
18
Meanwhile, after navigating his way through the crowds beginning to mill
about in the Steerage passageways, Eugene Daly arrived at Maggie Daly and
Bertha Mulvihill’s cabin. Pounding on the door, he shouted for them to wake
up. The water was ‘coming up and up rapidly’, so there was a great sense of
urgency on his part. The two girls, already awake from the collision, were
annoyed by Daly’s pounding, a fact which they made apparent to him.
However, both realized that something serious had happened, and it didn’t
take much persuading to convince them to leave their cabin.
19
Maggie quickly got dressed and went to wait in the hallway, while Bertha
slipped her coat on over her nightgown and put on her shoes. Before leaving
the room, Bertha grabbed her gold bracelet, cross, rosary beads, and prayer
book, and slipped them all into her coat. Fortunately, her inscribed timepiece
was already pinned inside the coat. The watch had been an engagement
present from her husband Henry, and bore great sentimental value. Bertha then
joined Margaret and Eugene in the hallway. Stewards were now telling
everyone to put their lifebelts on. Bertha went back into her room, stood up on
the washstand, and grabbed her lifebelt, before returning to the hallway.
20
This period cutaway illustration shows passengers making their way through and out of the
flooding interior of the Titanic.
Olympic’s aft Well Deck just before her maiden voyage in June 1911. This gives a wonderful idea
of the perspective of Third Class passengers who gathered astern as the ship was sinking.
Looking forward from the forward edge of the Olympic’s Poop Deck during the 1920’s. This view
shows the layers of open decks astern. Second Class passengers occupied the Boat Deck and B
Deck; First Class passengers A Deck, and Third Class passengers the open Well Deck. The open
door in the lower right corner leads forward into the enclosed Second Class Promenade. The
stairs from the Well Deck up to B Deck existed on Titanic. However, the staircase from B Deck to A
Deck was a later addition to Olympic not present on Titanic.
Around this time, the stewards in Third Class had begun to organize their
efforts. Steward John E. Hart had assumed charge of working with a group of
passengers in the stern sections of Third Class. He busied himself at helping
them with getting their lifejackets on and, dichotomously, reassuring them all
at the same time. At about 12:25 or 12:30 a.m., he recalled, word had been
passed down: ‘Women and children to the Boat Deck.’ Instead of leaving them
to their own devices in finding their way through unfamiliar territory to the
lifeboats, Hart began to assemble a group of about thirty women and children;
once they were all organized, he set off, personally leading them to the
lifeboats.
21
Third Class passengers Laura Cribb and her father John had also heard an
order for women and children to get their lifebelts on and proceed to the deck.
Laura went back to her cabin and grabbed her lifebelt without putting it on.
Then she and her father went up on deck, where they were apparently among
the first Steerage passengers to reach the open deck. They ‘ran swiftly across
the iron stairway’ that led up to the Second Class deck.
22
Elsewhere in Third Class, Eugene Daly and his charges had already begun
climbing the stairs to escape the incoming water, perhaps with the intention of
reaching the forward Well Deck. As they headed up, other people pushed past
them, and a man that Bertha Mulvihill described as a ‘fireman’ knocked her
down several steps, injuring her ribs. As she was in pain, Eugene had to help
her up, and he led the girls up to the next deck. Suddenly, Maggie Daly
realized that in the rush to leave her cabin, she had left her lifebelt and some
personal items of sentimental value. She asked if she should go back below,
but Eugene urged her not to. She ignored his advice and proceeded down the
stairwell. After several minutes, she returned, saying that her cabin was now
‘under five feet of water’.
23
Around 12:25 a.m., a steward burst into Imanita Shelley and her mother’s
cabin saying: ‘All on deck with life belts on.’ Both women hurriedly dressed,
and then put their lifebelts on over their clothes. As they readied themselves
to go on deck, Imanita asked her mother, ‘Can it be that the ship is sinking? Is
it possible that this great leviathan of a ship can go down?’
Imanita had toured the battleship USS Kentucky when the American fleet
was in Los Angeles, and had been ‘shown how modern ships were built and
how almost impossible it was for them to sink’. ‘Half way up to the upper
deck’, the two women encountered First Class passengers Isidor and Rosalie
Ida Straus, who were apparently aware that she was ill, and feeling week.
Shelley recalled that Mrs. Straus wrapped her own cloak around her, and
Isidor helped her to a nearby deck chair.
24
Meanwhile, Assistant Saloon Steward Nichols made his way up to the
Boat Deck.
25 On his way, he ‘noticed some of the passengers about, but no
one seemed to be worried or excited’. He passed by the Gymnasium on his
way to his assigned lifeboat, which was No. 15. Glancing inside, he saw that
there ‘were a number of passengers amusing themselves. One man was riding
the bicycle, one of those exercise machines, and another was punching the
bag.’26
First Class passengers Charles and Annie Stengel had returned to their
stateroom on C Deck once the order for passengers to put their lifebelts on
had come through. Charles had helped his wife into one of the belts, and she
tied his own on. Then they began to return to the Boat Deck.
27
Lookout George Hogg had left his post in the Crow’s Nest after seeing
people on the decks in lifebelts; he went ‘straight to the boat deck’. When he
got there, he ‘assisted in starting to uncover the boats’.
28
Around this time, Saloon Steward William Ward bumped into Second
Steward Dodd on D Deck. Dodd told Ward and some of the other Saloon
Stewards who were with him to ‘go forward to the saloon and see if there
was anyone about, and if there was to order them up on deck.’ He also told
them to collect the lifebelts and bring them up to the Cloakroom on deck.
29
Steward Etches was headed directly to his section of rooms, to make sure
everyone was proceeding up on deck. He had under his care eight B Deck
staterooms aft on the port side; he was also assigned Thomas Andrews’ cabin,
A-36, on the deck above. The cabins between B-86 and B-94 were empty. As
he was proceeding from forward on A Deck, Etches first came upon B-84,
which was occupied by First Class passenger Benjamin Guggenheim and his
Valet, Victor Giglio.
Guggenheim answered the door on the first knock, leading Etches to
conclude that the magnate had only just retired and undressed for bed. Etches
entered the room, pulled their three lifebelts out, and placed one on
Guggenheim. ‘This will hurt’, the mining magnate complained. Etches helped
to pull heavy sweaters over them both. Giglio and Guggenheim stayed
together as they left the cabin and went out on deck.
Etches saw them on their way, and was about to move on to the after
cabins in his section when he bumped into Thomas Andrews; the shipbuilder
was coming through the area after talking to George Rheims and Annie
Robinson about getting their lifebelts on. Andrews stopped and asked Etches
if he had awakened all of his passengers.
30 Just then – and before Etches had
the opportunity to respond – passenger William H. Harrison ‘came up’ right
near them. Harrison was Bruce Ismay’s Secretary, and his cabin, B-94, was
one of the after cabins from Etches’ section.
Etches replied to Andrews: ‘No; I am going to see if the Carter family are
up.’ The Carter family was booked in cabins B-96 and B-98, while Mr
Carter’s Valet Alexander Cairns was in B-86. The Carters’ cabins were just
astern of Harrison’s cabin.
Harrison overheard the conversation and interjected then, saying to
Etches: ‘I can tell you they are up. I have just come out of my cabin.’ With
Guggenheim gone, that accounted for all of Etches’ charges.
Andrews responded to this news by telling Etches to follow him down the
Pantry stairs to C Deck. As they descended, Andrews began to instruct the
steward to ‘be sure and make the passengers open their doors, and to tell them
the life belts were on top of the wardrobes and on top of the racks,’ as well as
to assist them in every way that the steward could, which Etches endeavored
to follow through on. Andrews also mentioned, before they parted, that Etches
should be sure that no lifebelts were left in the cabins.
The steward moved to the cabin ‘at the foot of the pantry stairs’, and he
went inside. There, he opened a drawer to stand on so that he could reach the
lifebelts. Pulling them off the wardrobe, he took them with him and started to
leave the cabin. As he came into the corridor, a stout gentleman, who Etches
thought was English, was passing by. Etches gave him a lifebelt. ‘Show me
how to put this on,’ the man requested. Etches demonstrated how, but then the
passenger asked the steward to tie it for him. Etches told him: ‘Pull the strings
around to the front and tie it,’ and as the passenger began to comply, Etches
moved on, opening other nearby cabin doors until ‘most of the doors were
opened along C deck’.
Etches found the door to cabin C-78 shut, so he pounded on the it with
both hands. A man’s voice answered: ‘What is it?’ A lady’s voice added:
‘Tell me what the trouble is.’ Etches explained: ‘It is necessary that you
should open the door, and I will explain everything, but please put the
lifebelts on or bring them in the corridor.’
The door remained closed; the passengers inside were obviously
unconvinced. Etches said: ‘Kindly open the door,’ and continued to bang on it,
but to no avail. He eventually concluded that he had given enough warning
there. He moved on, finding the next cabin empty, and proceeded to the third
cabin, where an American couple stood in the open doorway. They were
swinging lifebelts in their hands. Since it was obvious that no warning was
necessary there, Etches moved on.
31
On the Boat Deck, Lookout George Hogg had been assisting in the efforts
to uncover the lifeboats when the Boatswain ordered him to find a Jacob’s
ladder.
32 He set off to find the ladder, acquired one, and then returned to the
starboard Boat Deck. When he got there, First Officer Murdoch ordered him
in to Boat No. 7 in order to begin preparing the boat.
33
Olympic’s forward starboard lifeboats in 1911. From bow to stern, Boats Nos 1, 3, 5 and 7.
By now, Fifth Officer Lowe was assisting in the efforts to get the boats
loaded. Lowe never recalled Boxhall’s attempt to wake him around midnight.
When he was eventually roused by the commotion outside his port side cabin,
he opened the door to the hallway and looked out. To his surprise, he ‘saw
ladies in [the Officers’ Quarters] with lifebelts on.’ Something was wrong for
sure, and he had somehow managed to miss the boat … He hastily dressed
and then went out onto the port Boat Deck. There he found more passengers in
lifebelts, and discovered that the crew was ‘clearing’ the lifeboats, preparing
them ‘to go overboard’. He ran across someone who told him that they had
struck an iceberg. Lowe’s senses had confirmed that something was, indeed,
very wrong. He could feel the deck listing under his feet.
34
Convinced of the severity of the situation, Lowe had next returned to his
quarters and retrieved his personal revolver, which was a Browning
automatic; he did this because he did not know what lay ahead, and whether
he might need it. Then he had returned to the port Boat Deck and crossed over
to starboard via the roof over the First Class Reading & Writing Room and
Lounge. When he arrived, he found Murdoch working at Boat No. 7, and lent a
hand there first.
35
Second Officer Lightoller had moved all around the Boat Deck as work
proceeded at getting the boats ready. He visited lifeboats on both sides of the
deck, making sure that the seamen were uncovering the boats, but he did not
spend much time at the forward starboard boats, as matters were well in hand
there under Murdoch’s watchful eye. When he returned to the port side,
Lightoller asked Wilde if they could swing the boats out, but Wilde did not
seem to want to just yet. When Lightoller ran across Captain Smith and asked
him the same question, however, Smith gave permission and Lightoller got to
work.
After the boats had been swung out, Lightoller once again went back to
Smith. Cupping both hands over the Captain’s ears to communicate over the
racket of escaping steam, he shouted: ‘Hadn’t we better get the women and
children into the boats, sir?’ The old Captain turned and nodded: ‘Yes. Put the
women and children in and lower away.’36
While Henry Frauenthal was below getting his wife ready to go up on
deck, his brother Isaac was on the Boat Deck watching the scene play out
there. He remembered that it …
… was a jewel of a night, clear as crystal. Pretty cold, but not
uncomfortably so. The stars gleamed brightly, and in their light I could
see the iceberg we had hit. I estimated it stood about 100 feet above
the water, although it seemed much smaller than the ship herself. I
glanced over the side, and I tell you it looked pretty dark out beyond
the radiance of the ship’s lights. It made a man feel uneasy about what
was going to happen.
Right away it was apparent that the stewards were having trouble
getting passengers on deck. The stewards were reporting constantly to
their officers that they couldn’t make people believe anything serious
had happened. Some of them had been ridiculed and laughed at for
saying the ship might sink.
37
When fellow First Class passengers Charles and Annie Stengel returned from
their stateroom to the starboard side of the Boat Deck, they were wearing
their lifebelts. Just then, Charles heard an officer give the order ‘to put all the
women and children in the boats and have them go off about 200 yards from
the vessel’. By that point, Stengel was ‘a little bit agitated’, but he recalled
that ‘the officers or men who had charge of loading the lifeboats’ reassured
the passengers that: ‘There is no danger; this is simply a matter of
precaution.’38
Edwin Kimball and his wife Susan were by this time already on deck with
their lifebelts on. When they had been ready to head topside from their
staterooms, they went up together with their friends, the Beckwiths, Helen
Newsom and Karl Behr. Behr remembered leading them all up from below
since he remembered exactly where the lifeboats were.
39 When the group
arrived topside, there were only a few people there. Eventually, they saw the
officers attempting to load Boat No. 7. Edwin remembered that ‘the officers
were having great difficulty in getting the people to go into the lifeboats,
assuring them at the same time that it would not be a long while before they
probably would be back on the big boat.’40
Below deck, Saloon Steward Ray was searching for a lifebelt for Second
Steward Dodd. Ray ‘went through five staterooms and saw nobody there in
either of them’. Finally, he found a lifebelt in the fifth room and took it back to
Dodd. With this accomplished, he decided to go to his assigned lifeboat, No.
9, on the Boat Deck.
41
Meanwhile, Saloon Steward William Ward had searched through the
forward First Class areas on D Deck. He didn’t find anyone to send up to the
Boat Deck, but he did collect seven lifebelts before he left the area. He
donned one himself, and then began heading up. Ward found that most of the
people he encountered had already been supplied with lifebelts, but he busied
himself with fastening them to those who had not already put them on. Then he
went to the Boat Deck to find out what the situation was at his assigned
lifeboat, No. 7.42
First Class passenger Eleanor Cassebeer had returned to her D Deck
stateroom to dress. She rummaged through her steamer trunk for the warmest
clothes she had brought with her. As she lifted the lid, she noticed that it felt
odd as it moved … then she realized it was because the ship was down by the
head. She took the time to don a sealskin coat and hat, as well as a big
sealskin muff.
While she was there, she also grabbed a blanket; then she hunted around
for a lifebelt, which she only ‘found with some difficulty’. Only then did she
head off for the upper decks again. The beautiful dress and stoll which she
had worn that night at dinner – which had caused such a stir among those at
her table – were left behind. When Eleanor arrived at the upper decks, she
recalled that ‘stewards and pursers’ were taking the time to pin steamer rugs
around their waists, to help defend them against the cold.43
Following the collision, Second Class passenger Susan Webber had
returned to bed, but found that she could not sleep. After some time had
passed, she heard ‘a ship’s officer’ shout: ‘All hands on deck – put your life
belts on.’ She got back out of bed, put a traveling coat over her nightdress,
and then donned stockings and shoes. When she emerged from her cabin, the
steward fastened a lifebelt around her and then sent her packing topside.
44
It seems that Second Class passenger Nora Keane had stayed in the cabin
with Susan Webber following the collision; she remembered that she ‘was
ready for bed’ when an officer came by and told them both to put their
lifebelts on. She then left with Miss Webber. Even then, Nora thought that
there was no particular danger, as they had been expressly told that the ship
was unsinkable. People had said that ‘it was an impossibility’ for the ship to
go down.
45
When Lawrence Beesley reached the Boat Deck again, he found a
somewhat different scene than when he had first come on deck. There was
steam blowing off from the ‘large steam pipe reaching high up one of the
funnels: a harsh, deafening boom that made conversation difficult and no
doubt increased the apprehension of some people merely because of the
volume of the noise: if one imagines twenty locomotives blowing off steam in
a low key it would give some idea of the unpleasant sound that met us as we
climbed out on the top deck.’ Beesley thought that the time was about 12:20
a.m., and the ship still felt steady and secure.
The ship was absolutely still and, except for a gentle tilt downwards,
which I don’t think one person in ten would have noticed at that time,
no signs of the approaching disaster were visible. She lay just as if
she were waiting the order to go on again when some trifling matter
had been adjusted.
Yet a few moments later, crewmen began to work on all of the starboard side
aft lifeboats, Nos 9 through 15. He noticed that they were lifting the covers
from the boats. Some were …
… inside arranging the oars, some coiling ropes [falls] on the deck …
others with cranks fitted to the rocking arms of the davits. As we
watched, the cranks were turned, the davits swung outwards until the
boats hung clear of the edge of the deck.
46
As this scene played out, Beesley watched intently.
By then, Bedroom Steward Alfred Theissinger had met up with fellow
Bedroom Steward George Brewster on D Deck; their meeting was apparently
after Theissinger had awakened a number of passengers below deck. The two
stewards then went back up past the Purser’s Enquiry Office on C Deck.
Theissinger remembered that just then, ‘passengers were running to and fro
and as we passed the purser’s office there were scores of men and women
demanding and receiving their valuables.’47
In the meantime, Colonel Gracie had been standing on the port side of the
Promenade Deck for quite some time, along with a group of others. Gracie
realized that the four ladies he was with were ‘somewhat disturbed’ by the
situation. However, there was some good news which came along just then:
Our hopes were buoyed with the information, imparted through the
ship’s officers, that there had been an interchange of wireless
messages with passing ships, one of which was certainly coming to
our rescue.
48
Gracie also reassured the ladies by showing them the …
… bright white light of what I took to be a ship about five miles off
and which I felt sure was coming to our rescue. Colonel Astor heard
me telling this to them and he asked me to show it and I pointed the
light out to him. In so doing we both had to lean over the rail of the
ship and look close in towards the bow, avoiding a lifeboat even then
made ready with its gunwale lowered to the level of the floor of the
Boat Deck above us and obstructing our view.
49
On the Bridge, Fourth Officer Boxhall had finished his own calculation of the
ship’s position. He then gave it to Captain Smith. Smith, in turn, ordered him
to take this revised position to the Marconi room. When he arrived, however,
the Fourth Officer could not verbally tell the two operators what the position
was because of the racket of escaping steam. Instead, he wrote it on a slip of
paper without interrupting Phillips and left. Just afterwards, at 12:37 a.m.,
Phillips began sending out the CQD with the revised position, which would
be famous forever: 41° 46’ north, 50° 14’ west.
50
Olympic’s port side Boat Deck, looking forward from the vicinity of the No. 3 funnel. On Titanic,
the Chamberses emerged onto the Boat Deck from the door on the right hand side, and moved
forward to the vicinity of the lifeboats, where they encountered Captain Smith.
Within a minute’s time, Phillips raised the Cunard liner Carpathia, some
fifty-eight miles away. Realizing the seriousness of the incoming Titanic
message, Carpathia’s Marconi Operator, Harold Cottam, notified her
Captain, Arthur Rostron. Rostron immediately turned his ship around and
headed toward Titanic’s reported position at full speed. Phillips told Bride to
convey this good news to Captain Smith. Bride found Smith in the
Wheelhouse, and they both went back to the Marconi room. Captain Smith
asked how far away she was, and must have been aghast after he worked out
the distance between the two ships: it would take four hours for them to get
there. There was no possibility that they would arrive before the ship sank …
51
Meanwhile, Major Arthur Peuchen had proceeded to his room on C Deck.
While there, he changed as quickly as he could, removing his formal evening
attire, and then donning heavy clothes that would help to protect him against
the cold. He also put on an overcoat, and then grabbed his lifebelt before
leaving his room. What he saw in the Entrance on C Deck was a very sobering
scene …
In the hallway I met a great many people, ladies and gentlemen, with
their life belts on, and the ladies were crying, principally, most of
them. It was a very serious sight, and I commenced to realize how
serious matters were.
Peuchen began making his way through this human throng. He headed up to the
Boat Deck.
52
Now that they had donned their lifebelts, First Class passengers Herbert
and Carrie Chaffee were also heading back up on deck. While coming up the
stairs to the Promenade Deck, they passed an officer. It was the first officer
that Mrs Chaffee had seen since the collision. Although Carrie had remarked
to her husband that they should stay together, the officer said something about
women going to one side of the deck. Mrs Chaffee complied, separating from
her husband, and going to the port side of the Boat Deck.
53
When First Class passengers Marguerite Frölicher and her parents left
their adjoining staterooms, having fetched their lifebelts, they bumped into
their own Bedroom Steward, who was standing in the hall. Days earlier, when
they had boarded at Cherbourg, young Marguerite had teased the same
steward for having placed a lifebelt in her cabin when the liner was so
unsinkable. The whole exchange must have seemed a little ironic as she stood
there with one of the same lifebelts. She remembered that the steward was
‘pale as a sheet’. Yet, with typical English aplomb, he tried to reassure the
young lady. ‘Don’t be afraid, Miss. Remember all those compartments. The
ship can’t sink.’
Miss Frölicher replied: ‘I’m not scared, I’m just seasick.’ Then she and
her family went up to the Boat Deck.
54
Since the collision, John Snyder had made three trips out on deck, all at
his bride’s urging, to investigate what had happened to the ship. Just as he had
been about to retire once again, a steward came along. The steward told them
not to be alarmed, but to dress hurriedly and go on deck. The couple took their
time. Nelle Snyder recalled that with ‘Jack’s aid I dressed, even to putting on
all my jewels.’ This included four diamond rings, pins, and a jeweled vanity
bag which she could carry from her arm. Once they were ready, the couple
headed out on deck; apparently they just missed the order for men and women
to split up and go to separate sides of the ship. They headed up towards the
Boat Deck, and found that work had already begun on preparing the
lifeboats.
55
It was around this time that Norman and Bertha Chambers acquired their
steamer rugs from the Deck Steward. That accomplished, they climbed the
nearby port side companionway just aft of the First Class Lounge, and
emerged onto the Boat Deck just forward of the No. 3 funnel.
At that point, Norman Chambers remembered that there ‘did not at any
time seem to be any particular group of passengers around the boats on the
port side, although there were seamen there unlimbering the gear’. The scene
was unbelievably noisy. In addition to the work of preparing the lifeboats for
loading, there was the racket of steam blowing off from the funnels above.
Whenever he needed to communicate anything to his wife, he literally had to
shout in her ear over the din.
56
Even though it was nearly an hour after the collision, the escaping steam
was continuing to be a nuisance; the racket was certainly giving Marconi
Operator Phillips a rough time of it. At 12:38 a.m. ship’s time, Phillips was
heard by the SS Ypiranga tapping out CQD and saying: ‘Require immediate
assistance. We have collision with iceberg. Sinking. Can hear nothing for
noise of steam.’57
12:40 a.m. – 1:00 a.m.
First Class passenger Edith Rosenbaum had trudged up to the Boat Deck from
the Lounge after the call came out for women and children to proceed there.
However, she was not favorably impressed with the scene at the Boat Deck,
recalling that there ‘was so much confusion and indecision’ there that she
finally concluded ‘the whole thing was a farce’, and returned to the Lounge.
58
Just then, Major Arthur Peuchen arrived on the Boat Deck. He was in time
to pitch in as Lightoller prepared to lower Boat No. 4 to the Promenade Deck.
When he got there, he saw that the port side boats ‘were all ready for action;
that is, the covers had been taken off of them, and the ropes cleared, ready to
lower’. He was standing near Second Officer Lightoller, and Captain Smith
was nearby, as well. One of the two men said: ‘We will have to get these
masts out of these boats, and also the sail.’ Turning to Peuchen, the officer
said: ‘You might give us a hand.’ So Peuchen hopped into the lifeboat, and the
men working on the boat ‘got a knife and cut the lashings of the mast, which is
a very heavy mast, and also the sail, and moved it out of the boat, saying it
would not be required.’59
Lightoller then ordered Boat No. 4 lowered to the Promenade Deck,
where he believed that passengers could board more easily. There was a
heavy coaling wire that ran along A Deck, and Lightoller tied No. 4 to it, ‘in
case the ship got a list or anything.’60 The entire process of getting this
particular boat ready and down to the Promenade Deck took quite a bit of
time, as he recalled. Once the boat had drawn level with A Deck, Lightoller
ordered those on the Boat Deck with him to go below and start the loading
there.
Steward Joseph Wheat had been assisting passengers into their lifebelts
since just after 12:15 a.m. – nearly half an hour’s work. He remembered
hearing an order at about this time, which he passed on, for ‘all women and
children [to go] on to A deck on the port side,’ apparently in anticipation of
loading them into Boat No. 4. Then he headed below to his cabin.
61
Down on the port side of A Deck, Archibald Gracie was near Boat No. 4.
He estimated that ‘forty-five minutes’ had now elapsed since the collision
when Captain Smith’s orders were transmitted to the crew to lower the
lifeboats, loaded with women and children first.
62
After this, Gracie recalled that a ‘tall thin chap’, Sixth Officer Moody,
63
stood with a number of other crewmen on the deck to bar any men passengers
from getting near the boat, saying: ‘No man beyond this line.’64 Gracie could
do nothing more than hand off the responsibility for Mrs Appleton, Mrs
Cornell, Mrs Brown and Miss Evans directly to Moody. He ‘felt sure that they
would be safely loaded in the boats’ at that point.
Then Gracie noticed Isidor and Ida Straus standing nearby on the
Promenade Deck:
Then I saw Mr Straus and Mrs Straus, of whom I had seen a great deal
during the voyage. I had heard them discussing that if they were going
to die they would die together.
65
He recalled that shortly after the order to begin loading the women and
children in the boats came down, Mrs Straus ‘shone forth heroically when she
promptly and emphatically’ exclaimed: ‘No! I will not be separated from my
husband; as we have lived, so will we die together.’
Gracie then suggested that, because of Mr Straus’s ‘age and helplessness,
exception should be made and he be allowed to accompany his wife in the
boat.’
Mr Straus replied: ‘No! I do not wish any distinction in my favor which is
not granted to others.’ He added that he would share his fate with the rest of
the men, and that he would not go beyond that. Then Gracie recalled:
They expressed themselves as fully prepared to die, and calmly sat
down in steamer chairs on the glass-enclosed Deck A, prepared to
meet their fate. Further entreaties to make them change their decision
were of no avail. Later they moved to the Boat Deck above,
accompanying Mrs Straus’s maid …66
Gracie saw that he could be of no further assistance with the Strauses.
Meanwhile, there was a dilemma developing. Boat No. 4 had just been
lowered to the Promenade Deck, so that passengers could board from that
deck rather from the open deck above. On the Boat Deck, First Class
passenger Hugh Woolner later remembered hearing Captain Smith call out: ‘I
want all the passengers to go down on A deck, because I intend they shall go
into the boats from A deck.’ Bertha Chambers, who had just arrived on the
port side of the Boat Deck, also saw Captain Smith come by, and she
remembered his words as: ‘Ladies, if you will go down to deck A I think you
can get in more easily.’ Carrie Chaffee, having separated from her husband,
had arrived on the port side of the Boat Deck just in time to be told to go back
down to A Deck, probably along with the group of others who were told to
trudge down to that deck to board Boat No. 4. She stood, patiently waiting on
the Promenade Deck, until No. 4 could be loaded.67
After hearing these orders from the Captain, Hugh Woolner decided to
intervene. As he had come up on deck, he had noticed that the Promenade
windows were closed, so he approached Captain Smith, gave a crisp salute,
and said: ‘Haven’t you forgotten, sir, that all those glass windows are
closed?’
‘By God,’ Smith said, ‘you are right. Call those people back!’
68 Some of
the passengers had not yet left the deck, and a number of others – doubtless
exasperated – came back up. Still others apparently stayed below on the
Promenade Deck.
With the enclosed windows impeding the loading of No. 4, Lightoller then
gave ‘two or three’ stewards the order to go find the handles and crank open
the windows. However, it was not going to be accomplished quickly. Hugh
Woolner remembered that one day during the crossing, he had watched the
sailors ‘winding them up with these spanners that are used for that purpose.’ It
struck him as ‘being rather a slow job.’69
This mockup demonstrates the type of window used on Olympic’s B Deck, as well as along Titanic’s
A Deck Promenade. The cranks to open the vertically-sliding windows were removable, and the
cranks were not handy when the officers made their first attempt to load Boat No. 4.
This photograph of one of Olympic’s B Deck Promenade windows, without the cranks, shows how
the windows on Titanic’s Promenade Deck would have appeared. Note the gears along the window
tracks in both this and the preceding photo.
As the attempt to load No. 4 fell apart for the time being, and much of the
group there dispersed, the ladies Gracie had left with Sixth Officer Moody
eventually moved off to other locations. Moody himself headed back up to the
Boat Deck.
First Class passenger Emily Ryerson and her husband Arthur were among
the crowd that had gathered on A Deck before being ordered to the Boat
Deck. Standing with them were their 21-year-old daughter Suzette, 18-yearold daughter Emily, 13-year-old son John, Emily’s maid Victorine
Chaudanson, and First Class passenger Grace Bowen, who was traveling with
the family. Arthur Ryerson was reassuring throughout, being described as
‘calm and cheerful’, and when some of the women began to get upset, he
joked with them, saying: ‘Don’t you hear the band playing?’ As they all
headed up to the Boat Deck, Emily begged her husband to let her stay with
him. He told her that she must obey orders, and that when they called for
women and children, she must go when her turn came. ‘You take a boat going
to New York.’ This referred to rumors circulating among the crowd that the
Olympic and Baltic would soon be nearby.
70
Bertha Chambers attributed the mistake of sending the passengers down to
A Deck to ‘agitation’ on the Captain’s part.
71 At that point, her husband
Norman still felt the ship listing to starboard, and so he concluded that any
lifeboats launched from the starboard side would have an easier time of
clearing the ship’s towering side. Thus, he led his wife up the short set of
stairs and onto the roof over the Lounge, and then over to the forward boats on
the starboard side. They paused just by the Gymnasium door to allow
numerous passengers to emerge from the First Class Entrance onto the Boat
Deck. He recalled that stewards on the deck were directing these passengers
‘to the boats aft’. Chambers waited until the crowd had exited, and then they
kept moving forward.72
Overall, Bertha Chambers was not particularly impressed with the work
that the crew was doing on the lifeboats on the starboard side. ‘No officer
was directing, and few sailors were in sight. Things were being done, but in a
haphazard, unsystematic fashion. There was no evidence of the least
familiarity on the part of the crew with the routine of lowering the boats.’73
Back on the port side, rather than waiting around for Boat No. 4 to be
ready for loading, Second Officer Lightoller moved on to Boat No. 6 to begin
work on it.
74 He remembered that he was working on No. 6 about ‘three
quarters of an hour’ after coming on deck, which places the efforts there at
around 12:40–12:45 a.m.
75
It was at about this same time – after temporarily abandoning efforts to
load Boat No. 4, and while starting to work on Boat No. 6 – that Lightoller
gave another order: He sent Boatswain Alfred Nichols and six other crewmen
below to open the gangway doors.
76 The Second Officer did this with the
intention of making it possible for the lifeboats to come alongside the ship,
and take on more passengers there once afloat. The plan, however, fell by the
wayside, and the men never returned from below. Lightoller had already been
suffering from a certain shortage of qualified seamen; from that point on, this
problem would only grow more pronounced.77
Below, Dr Washington Dodge had already made three trips out of his
stateroom to find out what the situation was. It was only after he returned from
these that he finally received word from their Bedroom Steward that the order
had come down to put on their lifebelts. His wife had dressed warmly, and
they had awakened and dressed their son, Master Washington – or Bobo, as he
was called at the time. Later, young Washington could not remember whether
it was his mother or his father who dressed him, but at some point, Dr Dodge
grabbed three lifebelts from the top of their wardrobe and draped them over
his arm. Once the family members were ready, they left their stateroom and
climbed the forward Grand Staircase to the Boat Deck. While they were in
their cabin dressing and getting their lifebelts, they missed the order, heard by
others, for women and children to proceed to the port side of the ship. Thus,
the family remained together.
78
This photograph of Olympic’s Lounge Roof during the 1920’s shows the path the Chamberses took
to cross over to the starboard side Boat Deck from the port side. However on Titanic, the lifeboat
configuration was entirely different.
Titanic’s Gymnasium. A number of passengers gathered here to stay off the cold decks as lifeboats
were prepared and lowered. Instructor McCawley happily demonstrated the equipment to these
passengers.
Meanwhile, Steward Etches had soon re-joined Thomas Andrews on C
Deck. The two men then proceeded to the First Class Entrance and forward
Grand Staircase together. Etches recalled that at that time:
The purser [Chief Purser McElroy] was standing outside of his office,
in a large group of ladies. The purser was asking them to do as he
asked them, and to go back in their rooms and not to frighten
themselves, but, as a preliminary caution, to put the life belts on, and
the stewards would give them every attention. Mr Andrews said:
‘That is exactly what I have been trying to get them to do.’
With that, Andrews left to go down the stairs to D Deck. Just then, McElroy
told Etches: ‘It is necessary to go up on the boat deck. Tell all the other
bedroom stewards to assemble their passengers on the boat deck and stand
by.’ So Etches headed topside to the starboard side of the Boat Deck.
Arriving there, he found that the crew was loading Boat No. 7. Etches was
looking for his own lifeboat, No. 5, so he asked a Quartermaster nearby: ‘Is
this Boat No. 5?’ The Quartermaster responded: ‘No; it is the next boat.’79
Elsewhere, the Duff Gordons and Laura Francatelli were sticking closely
together. They had found the First Class Entrance on the Boat Deck very
crowded, with many people moving out onto the open Boat Deck on either
side. Lucy thought some of the young American men in the crowd were making
some intolerably crass wisecracks. It was so cold outside that the trio
avoided going out on the deck, and instead found a spot just off the main
traffic pathways.
Earlier, the stewards had come through and told passengers that they
should be ready to board the lifeboats when the call came. The Duff Gordons
had hardly believed their ears when they heard … was this all really
happening?
They had spent some time inside the Entrance, and eventually they decided
to go out onto the port Boat Deck. Things were quite crowded and struck them
as very chaotic. After observing the scene there, Sir Cosmo said: ‘We will go
round to the starboard side. It may be better there. It can’t possibly be worse.’
They then walked around to the starboard deck, and found their way into
the warm, brilliantly-lit Gymnasium to wait. They sat there for a few minutes,
watching events play out on the deck just beyond the room’s arched windows.
They also noticed that things seemed to be less crowded out there than they
had been on the port side.
80
Meanwhile, on the starboard side, First Officer Murdoch was hard at
work at Boat No. 7. Lookout George Hogg, one of the two lookouts who had
relieved Lookout Fleet and Lee following the collision,
81 was working with
him. He had been putting the boat’s plug in and completing prep work on the
boat. When it came time to start loading the boat, Hogg jumped out to assist
with the falls when it was ready to lower away. Murdoch had other ideas,
however, and told him: ‘You step in that boat.’ Hogg didn’t argue, saying:
‘Very good, sir.’82
The crewmen involved in the process bundled all of the women and
children standing nearby into Boat No. 7, but they quickly ran out of people
willing to board. They were having trouble convincing many of the passengers
just to come out on deck, particularly with the cold and noise, let alone climb
into the boats. This was particularly the case because many of the passengers
still did not think that there was anything wrong with the ship; Titanic
appeared so much safer than a little wooden lifeboat in the middle of the
night.
Newlyweds John and Nelle Snyder had fully dressed, and they reached
the starboard Boat Deck just as the first lifeboats were being prepared. When
passengers had first been told to climb aboard the boats, Nelle Snyder
remembered that many persons drew back and said they would rather stay on
board. But as soon as the boats were loaded, word came down for them to be
lowered.83
Saloon Steward William Ward had turned out to No. 7, since it was his
assigned boat. He remembered things were quite orderly, and that some ladies
got in as well as some men. He had also noticed that most people were still
treating the whole situation ‘as a kind of a joke’.
84
While most people were treating the situation lightly, Dorothy Gibson was
very nervous. William Sloper recalled that she led their party along the Boat
Deck toward Boat No. 7. Sloper helped her into the boat, and told her: ‘Keep
a stiff upper lip.’ Since so many people were unwilling to board the craft, the
crewmen allowed Sloper and Frederic Seward to climb in along with
Dorothy and her mother. Just then, Sloper noticed that John Jacob Astor and
his wife were about to board, as well. Suddenly, and quite unexpectedly,
Astor drew back and pulled his wife back with him. Someone said something
to Astor, but Sloper couldn’t hear what it was.
85
Philipp Mock and his sister had watched as Boat No. 7 was loaded.
Mock, like others nearby, also noticed that no one ‘wanted to enter the boats,
even when asked to do so. They thought the ship was not going to sink and
they preferred to stay by it.’ However, he also recalled that the prevailing
‘feeling of security, or safety among the first cabin passengers was paramount’
even at that point.
86
First Class passenger Antoinette Flegenheim had stayed on deck for some
time after the collision. When the order for passengers to head up to the boats
had been passed, at about 12:25 a.m., she had planned to return below to her
cabin to dress. However, she had been prevented from doing so. Thus, she
was on hand just as Boat No. 7 was being loaded, and found her way aboard
the boat. For her, clad only in a nightgown, bathrobe, stockings, slippers, and
a steamer cap, one thing was certain: it was going to be a very long, cold
night.
87
Steward Etches lent a hand at Boat No. 7, as he could see that his assigned
boat, No. 5 was still being prepared for loading. He noticed Murdoch,
Pitman, Ismay, the Quartermaster he had just spoken to, and two other
stewards on the scene, all assisting in the effort; Etches thought that there was
‘great excitement’ at the time. Passengers were tripping on Boat No. 7’s falls,
which Etches helped to clear.
Sometime after arriving on deck, Etches saw Benjamin Guggenheim and
Victor Giglio. Their appearance stunned the steward; when he had last seen
them, he was sending them out of their cabin in nightclothes, a sweater and
lifebelts. But now Etches saw that the two men ‘were dressed in their evening
clothes. They had deliberately taken off their sweaters,’ and they had also
removed their lifebelts. ‘What’s that for?’ Etches asked.
‘We’ve dressed up in our best, and are prepared to go down like
gentlemen,’ the millionaire replied. Somehow, they had gotten the word that
the ship was mortally wounded, when most were still unaware that this was
the case. Then, Guggenheim asked Etches to do him an important favor. He
told Etches that he had a message for the steward to give to his wife. It was:
‘If anything should happen to me, tell my wife in New York that I’ve done my
best in doing my duty.’88
Etches next watched as both Guggenheim and Giglio passed from ‘one
lifeboat to another’, obviously a reference to Boats Nos 7 and 5, ‘helping the
women and children. Mr Guggenheim would shout out, “Women first” ’.
Etches believed that the two men were of ‘great assistance’ to the officers.
89
Another steward reportedly saw Guggenheim, as well, although exactly
when he spotted them is unclear. Guggenheim sent another message to his wife
through this steward, asking him to tell her ‘that I played the game straight to
the end and that no woman was left on board this ship because Ben
Guggenheim was a coward. Tell her that my last thoughts will be of her and
our girls.’ Then the steward watched as Guggenheim ‘lit a cigar and sauntered
up to the boat deck to help load the life boats.’90
By that time, Alfred Nourney had again rejoined his friends, and they were
helping to load women into Boat No. 7. After this, Nourney and his young
friends were among the male passengers ordered into No. 7. Nourney, Henry
Blank and William Greenfield all complied.91 Another one of the men who
boarded the boat at this time was First Class passenger James McGough. He
had his back turned towards the boat when an officer, possibly Murdoch,
grabbed him by the shoulder and pushed him toward No. 7 saying: ‘Here, you
are a big fellow; get into the boat.’92
Murdoch told the crewmen in the lifeboat to row away a short distance
from the ship, but to stand by the gangway. The passengers in the boat, not yet
realizing there was any danger, figured this was because it would only be a
short time until the boats were taken back aboard Titanic. This
incomprehension is understandable, considering the fact that early on in the
sinking, First Class passenger Peter Daly heard the officers and crewmen
repeatedly tell the passengers, particularly the women, that boarding the boats
‘is only a precaution … you’ll be back in the morning for breakfast; there’s no
danger.’93
In reality, it seems as if early on Murdoch, like Lightoller, was thinking
that more passengers could be loaded into the boats, once they were afloat,
from the lower gangways. Perhaps they felt that this would be a safer option
than overloading the boats while they were sitting in the davits.
It was at this point that the Dodge family arrived on the starboard Boat
Deck adjacent to Boat No. 7. Dr Dodge noticed that the boat was already
loading, but that there were only a few persons in it at the time. He heard ‘the
officer in charge’ call for women and children to climb aboard, and he was
having trouble getting people to fill it. However, Dr Dodge hesitated, still
unsure as to whether his family would be safer on the ship or in the lifeboat.
He then took the lifebelts which he had been carrying and busied himself at
fastening them to his loved ones.
To young Master Dodge, the deck appeared crowded, and the racket of
steam being blown off was frightening. He remembered hearing his mother
remark to his father: ‘Imagine, wouldn’t something like this happen when his
nanny isn’t with us?’
Murdoch ordered Boat No. 7 away around 12:40 a.m.
94 Dr Dodge heard
the order, ‘Lower away’ being given, and watched carefully as the boat made
a safe descent to the water. Then he moved his family toward Boat No. 5, now
that he had determined it would be safe for them to board the small craft.
95
By that time, Fifth Officer Lowe had also joined in the effort to assist in
lowering No. 7.96 The lifeboat, which could hold sixty-five persons, left with
about twenty-eight aboard.97
It became the first lifeboat to leave the doomed
liner. It touched down on the surface of the ocean, which was described as
being ‘as smooth as glass’, without even as much as a ripple.
Isaac Frauenthal had also watched as Boat No. 7 was loaded and lowered
away. He remembered that it …
… didn’t have nearly as many as it could carry comfortably, because
there were not enough men on deck to fill it. I didn’t hear any order
given about ‘women and children first’, but everybody seemed to take
it for granted that the women and children must have first chance at the
boats.
The few that got in the first boat were laughing and joking, thinking
that apparently it was foolish to ask them to go out there in the dark in
a little boat when there was a great lighted ship to take care of them.
When his brother and sister-in-law had joined him, Isaac couldn’t resist
referring back to his set of ominous dreams and subsequent nerves when
boarding the ship, for which his brother had laughed at him. ‘Well, Henry,’ he
said, ‘I wasn’t so foolish, was I?’
Henry knew there was trouble, but still wasn’t convinced of its severity.
‘Oh,’ he replied, ‘the boat is too big. It can’t sink.’
Isaac recalled that shortly after this, he saw Mr and Mrs Straus ‘standing
by the rail on the starboard side. They were a little removed from the other
passengers and were calmly conversing.’98
Meanwhile, the Hoyts had been below in their cabin dressing warmly. As
a result, they had missed both the order for passengers to put on their lifebelts,
and the subsequent order for men and women to go to opposite sides of the
ship. When they ‘again went on deck’, Jane Hoyt thought that there ‘was not
the slightest disorder but people were hurrying about.’ At about that time, the
crew was ‘just getting ready to lower the first life boat. It was impossible for
the officers to induce women to get in to the boat,’ she recalled, as everyone
still thought that the unsinkable Titanic was safer than a small little lifeboat.
No amount of persuasion could convince the women that it would be
safer for them to get in the boats. The first boat contained more men
than it did women for this reason alone. Finally, when the women saw
that the men were willing to get in the boats they began to change their
minds.
I saw Mr Ismay standing with Mr Andrews when the first boat
drew away and he was trying to keep order.
99
This photograph shows Olympic’s starboard side, looking aft, in 1935. It gives a wonderful idea of
the perspective of passengers in the forward, starboard lifeboats as they were lowered away into
the sea.
Both Ismay and Andrews then moved on to help at Boat No. 5. They were
spotted there just moments later.
Down in cabin D-28, First Class passengers Elizabeth and Mary Lines
had obediently waited in their cabin for nearly an hour after the ship struck the
iceberg. Their steward had told them to remain there right after the collision,
but had never returned to give them further instructions. They had
subsequently felt the ship come to a complete stop, and heard steam from the
boilers blowing off far above. The women did not feel that they were in any
immediate danger, as they had not even taken the opportunity to dress, but as
time passed, they were growing concerned.
Then they heard the voice of 54-year-old Percival White, a fellow First
Class passenger who was staying in adjoining cabin D-26. He was calling to
his 21-year-old son Richard to head for the lifeboats. Mr White was
acquainted with the two women, and apparently noticed that their cabin light
was on, so he walked down the hallway and ‘pounded’ on their door. When
the women opened it, he must have been astonished to see that they were still
inside, and still undressed at that. ‘What are you doing here?’ he asked. ‘This
ship is sinking!’ He helped Elizabeth and Mary find their lifebelts. Mary later
recalled that he ‘was so insistent about getting us out of there’ that they only
had time to don their jackets, shoes, and hats. Mary also pocketed her tiny
flashlight, in case it was needed.
When the women began to ascend the Grand Staircase, they came across
their steward, ‘sitting … at the foot of the stairs.’ As they passed, Mrs Lines
asked: ‘You are going up on deck?’
The steward merely responded: ‘No’, and said good-bye.
Once they had reached the top of the stairs at the Boat Deck, they were
just about to go outside when they came across an unidentified ‘young officer’
who began to help them into their lifebelts. As he worked at getting the belts
on and tied, he said: ‘We are sending you out as a matter of precaution; we
hope you will be back for breakfast.’ Then the two women went out on deck.
Mary remembered that by the time they arrived, some of the lifeboats had
already been lowered away. Yet everything was quiet and calm, and the ship
still felt safe enough that many were refusing to leave in the boats …100
It had taken about a full hour from the time of the collision until the first
boat was ready for lowering. This was in spite of the fact that Captain Smith
had ordered the lifeboats uncovered as a proactive measure before he even
knew the ship was sinking. This may seem like an unconscionable waste of
time, yet it had taken forty or forty-five minutes before Andrews was able to
tell Captain Smith that the ship was doomed. There were additional
complications: the unbelievable nature of the news that the ship was sinking;
the difficulties of assembling the passengers and crew in the middle of the
night after many had retired – and of doing so without creating a panic when
there were nowhere near enough lifeboats; and the enormity of the task of
uncovering, preparing and swinging out the lifeboats on a huge ship that most
of the crew were very unfamiliar with. Because of all these handicaps, it
really seems a miracle that the first boat got away in just an hour’s time. Once
lifeboats began to leave the ship, however, the process really began to move
forward quickly, each of the officers growing into his own particular style.
Just forward of Boat No. 7, Third Officer Pitman had been working on
Boat No. 5. Once he had arrived, he and the men working with him had to
finish stripping off the cover and getting the boat ready to swing out. While
they worked, Pitman noticed a passenger standing nearby who was clad in a
dressing gown and slippers. The man said to Pitman very quietly, ‘There is no
time to waste.’ Pitman did not recognize the passenger, and mentally
dismissed him as ignorant, thinking that ‘he did not know anything about it at
all,’ and simply continued carrying on with his work.
When the time came to swing Boat No. 5 out, Third Officer Pitman was
pleasantly surprised with the operation of the new style Welin davits. With the
assistance of five or six seamen, the boat was swung out and lowered level
with the deck in just ‘two or three’ minutes;
101
the Third Officer thought that
these davits were a ‘great improvement’ over the old-fashioned radial bar
davits, which took longer, and required about a dozen men on each end of the
boat to lift it over the edge of deck.
It was at this point that the nearby passenger in the dressing gown again
asserted himself, telling Pitman that they had better get the boat loaded with
women and children. Pitman replied: ‘I await the commander’s orders.’ The
man replied, ‘Very well.’ Pitman suddenly began to realize that this passenger
was most likely J. Bruce Ismay, Chairman of the White Star Line – and thus
his employer. So he moved off toward the Bridge, found Captain Smith, and
explained that he thought that ‘Mr Ismay … wished me to get the boat away,
with women and children in it.’ Captain Smith said: ‘Go ahead; carry on.’
Pitman returned to the boat, climbed into it, and called out to the
passengers waiting nearby: ‘Come along, ladies.’ There was a good-sized
crowd of people standing in the vicinity, and it did not take a very long time
for Pitman to load the boat. He noticed that Ismay ‘helped to get them along’,
and ‘assisted in every way’.
102
Helen Ostby, her father Engelhart, and Mr and Mrs Frank and Anna
Warren all waited on the starboard side of the Boat Deck, watching as Boat
No. 5 was prepared. When the time came for the women and children to begin
boarding, Anna Warren moved toward the lifeboat and was helped in. Young
Helen followed after her, noticing that ‘there was a little gap’ between the
side of the boat and the edge of the deck. She thought that crossing the gap was
a ‘very unpleasant feeling’. Frank Warren and Engelhart Ostby stood back, not
making any attempt to board the lifeboat.
103
Marguerite Frölicher and her parents Margaretha and Maximilian reached
Boat No. 5 just as it was filling. Young Marguerite remembered ‘two fat
sailors’ lifting her mother into a lifeboat first, and then picking her up and
placing her in the boat next to her. Maximilian ‘started instinctively to follow’
them, as the boat was far from full. However, the sailors stopped him, saying,
‘Ladies first, Sir.’ He stepped back, and Marguerite could see the tears in her
father’s eyes as he called out to them, ‘Auf weidersehen.’
104
The Duff Gordons and Lucy’s secretary, Laura Francatelli, had stayed in
the Gymnasium until a call came out for passengers to make their way to the
boats. Then they headed back out to the starboard Boat Deck. Lucy watched
the loading of Boat No. 5, where the orders were for women first:
Even in that terrible moment I was filled with wonder at nearly all the
American wives who were leaving their husbands without a word of
protest or regret, scarce of farewell … [When] two officers came up
and tried to force me into one of the boats I refused.105
Elsewhere, when Eleanor Cassebeer came up from her stateroom and returned
to the Promenade Deck Entrance, her table companion Harry Anderson met
back up with her. It looked to her as if he’d aged ten years since they had
parted. Apparently he had discovered something very bad since they
separated, but she didn’t think too much about it at the time. Anderson led her
up to the Boat Deck and out onto the starboard side, then told her in no
uncertain terms to get into Boat No. 5, which the men were just about to put
over the deck’s edge. Here she bumped into another one of her table
companions, Thomas Andrews:
I could not hear just what he said to me at the time on account of the
din, but I saw him motion me to get into the boat, which was about to
be swung over the rail, 90 feet above the water [sic]. I asked him why
he did not get in also, and he said: ‘No, women and children first.’106
She then jumped spryly into the boat. As she climbed in, she saw her
shipboard companion, Benjamin Foreman, standing at the rail not too far
away. Perhaps, she thought, he had noticed that she had returned to her normal
attire of severe suits. ‘Come on in, there’s plenty of room,’ she said. He
replied, ‘No, it’s women first.’ She also noticed that Bruce Ismay had been
helping to load women and children into the boat, and that he ‘was dressed in
pajamas and slippers, with a coat thrown over his shoulders.’107
Doctor Henry Frauenthal, his wife Clara, and his brother Isaac moved
forward, heading toward Boat No. 5. The loading process very nearly
depleted the numbers of the crowd that had been standing nearby; only two
women refused to get in, and at that point, Pitman shouted out for any more
ladies.
The crewmembers placed Annie Stengel into Boat No. 5. She then turned,
and wanted her husband to follow her. However, Charles heard those in
charge of loading say: ‘No; nothing but ladies and children.’ Annie heard
someone say, ‘No more; the boat is full.’ Charles stepped back onto the
deck.
108
Passengers and crew engaging in a lifeboat drill aboard the German liner Kaiser Wilhelm der
Grosse. The scene gives an idea of how things looked during Titanic’s evacuation.
First Officer Murdoch, fresh from the lowering of No. 7, arrived then and
also called out for more ladies, as did Ismay. A woman came up to the boat,
and Ismay said: ‘Come along, jump in.’ She was hesitant, saying, ‘I am only a
stewardess.’ Ismay said, ‘Never mind, you are a woman, take your place,’
and she climbed aboard.109 When no more women were forthcoming, the
crewmembers let a few men climb in to help fill up the boat.
Norman Chambers noticed that Boat No. 5 was quite well loaded when he
and his wife came along.
110 Mrs Chambers told her husband that she was
getting into that boat, and proceeded to jump in, calling after for him to join
her. Chambers believed that if he didn’t follow her, she would simply jump
back out on the deck, so he jumped in as well. Although it was not very full,
he felt that it would not have been ‘sage to put very many more people in that
boat’.
Edwin and Susan Kimball also made it to the deck as No. 5 was loading.
So did their friends, Richard and Sarah Beckwith, along with Sarah’s
daughter Helen Newsom. Helen’s beau, tennis player Karl Behr, also stood
by. Mrs Beckwith turned to Bruce Ismay and asked if the men in their party
could come in, and Karl remembered him replying: ‘Why certainly.’ The
entire group climbed into the lifeboat and settled in.
111
Steward Etches stood by the forward fall of No. 5. Quartermaster Alfred
Olliver, who had been standing in the boat, assisting with the loading, stepped
back onto the deck. He apparently did not have any intention of leaving the
ship. Pitman had also jumped back onto the deck. Just then, Murdoch asked
Etches: ‘Are you the steward appointed to this boat?’ Etches responded that
he was, and the First Officer ordered him to get in the boat and assist the men
with the forward fall. Pitman then called out, asking if there was a sailor in
the boat. Etches looked around and told the Third Officer that there wasn’t.
Pitman ordered Olliver back into the boat.
112
Still nearby, Doctor Washington Dodge moved his family toward Boat No.
5, and had them climb into it. Young Washington remembered that his mother
put him into the boat, but that they had to leave his father behind, as the officer
in charge had shouted that it would be ‘women and children first.’113
At just about that point, Norman Chambers remembered hearing ‘someone
in authority’ say: ‘That is enough before lowering. We can get more in after
she is in the water.’ Next, First Officer Murdoch stepped up to Pitman and
told him: ‘You go in charge of this boat, old man, and also look after the
others. Keep handy to come to the after gangway when hailed.’ Pitman did not
like the idea of leaving, since he still felt that he was ‘better off’ on the ship
than in the lifeboat, but resolved to follow the order. Just then, Murdoch stuck
a hand out to Pitman, and the Third Officer shook it. Murdoch said: ‘Goodbye.
Good luck to you,’ and then moved on toward Boat No. 3. Steward Etches
also had the opportunity to witness this farewell.
114
At the time, Pitman fully expected that he would see Murdoch again, and
that the lifeboats would be going back to the ship in ‘perhaps two or three
hours’. Later, the First Officer’s manner in that moment stood out to Pitman; he
concluded that Murdoch had not been expecting to see the Third Officer again.
Farewell aside, Pitman had his instructions. He jumped back into Boat No. 5
and ordered: ‘Lower away.’115
It was 12:43 a.m. As Eleanor Cassebeer looked from the lifeboat at her
shipboard friend, Benjamin Foreman, he was still standing on the deck. She
noticed that the small book she had lent him during the crossing was poking
out from his jacket pocket.
116
Norman Chambers recalled that just after he and his wife had gotten
settled in the boat, ‘a tall young officer clad in a long overcoat’ came along. A
clear reference to Murdoch, this officer was ‘giving orders to another officer
to go into our boat and take charge of the boats on our side. As a parting
injunction he gave our officer (whom I later found to be a Mr Pitman)
instructions to hold onto his painter and pull up alongside the gangway after
the boat had reached the water.’117
Dr Henry Frauenthal was still unsure of exactly what had gone wrong with
the ship. He had previously seen his wife Clara safely into the boat. Yet the
doctor was still ‘under the impression that the trouble was with the machinery
and we were likely to be blown up’. This may explain the subsequent actions
that he and his brother took. Right before No. 5 began descending, Isaac and
Henry both leapt down into it. Elmer Taylor, a rather large man, also leaped;
he landed directly on fellow First Class passenger Annie Stengel, dislocating
some of her ribs.
The crewmembers were furious with the Frauenthal brothers’ actions, and
someone yelled out, ‘Throw that man out of the boat,’ but the boat had already
started to lower away.
118 Just then, young Washington Dodge, sitting in the
lifeboat, remembered hearing one of the officers on the scene say ‘that he was
going to go below decks and get his gun, if the pushing did not stop.’119
Charles Stengel also remembered that when the Frauenthal brothers jumped
into the boat, the ‘officer or the man’ who was in charge said: ‘I will stop
that. I will go down and get my gun.’ Then he watched the officer leave the
deck. Approximately thirty-six out of Boat No. 5’s sixty-five seats were
occupied.120
Around the time the order to lower away was given, Fifth Officer Lowe
had come alongside the boat. Under Murdoch’s orders, he oversaw the
lowering process, personally working one of the pair of falls. As the Fifth
Officer began his work, Bruce Ismay leaned over the edge of the Boat Deck,
hanging on the davit. Lowe was trying to work the slack out of the falls which
were right at the Managing Director’s feet. He said that Ismay was
‘overanxious and was getting a trifle excited’, waving his arms and shouting
out, ‘Lower away! Lower away! Lower Away! Lower Away!’
Lowe did not recognize Ismay at all, thinking he was just a passenger, and
his patience ran thin because he felt that Ismay was interfering with his duties.
In the heat of the moment, he exploded at him: ‘If you will get to hell out of
that I shall be able to do something!’ When Ismay did not reply to this, Lowe
continued: ‘Do you want me to lower away quickly? You will have me drown
the whole lot of them!’ Without uttering another word in response, Ismay
walked forward to Boat No. 3 to help with the preparations there.
121
As No. 5 lowered, the men working at one of the davits let the falls play
out more quickly than the crew manning the other davit, causing the boat to tip
at a precarious angle. For a moment, the occupants felt like they would be
tossed out.
122
 Henry Frauenthal recalled:
In the process of being lowered, several times we thought we would
be thrown into the water. When nearing the water, it was discovered
that the plug in the bottom of the boat had not been safely inserted, and
this was attended to. Had this been overlooked, this lifeboat would
have sunk …123
Helen Ostby also recalled that the trip to the water was ‘very unpleasant …
Once below the boat deck, there were no lights so that it was difficult for the
men on the deck, who were letting the boat down … to keep it level. First one
end would dip down, then the other, and the people in the boat would shout to
them to level it off.’ 124
Marguerite Frölicher recalled that this frightful start from the deck had an
unintended consequence:
Then they started to lower us, with only women in the lifeboat and still
plenty of room. One end stuck and we were hanging crazily there so
they pulled us up again.
I started screaming for my father and tried to get back on deck.
Other women began calling to husbands and sons and suddenly a
British officer said: ‘Let the men in. Make haste.’ I was never so
happy in my life.
125
Among the men who had been allowed into the boat was Marguerite’s father,
Maximilian Frölicher-Stehli. By comparison, Norman Chambers thought that
the lowering process was ‘very satisfactory, taking into account the apparent
absolute lack of training of the rank and file of the crew.’
Finally, the boat was straightened up, but soon there came another issue.
‘Halfway down’, Third Officer Pitman was suddenly unsure that the plug had
been put in. He blew his officer’s whistle for the lowering to be halted, and
then he called out loudly to one of the crewmen in the boat, asking him
whether the plug was in. The crewman responded that it had been secured in
place. Suddenly, a voice – probably belonging to Fifth Officer Lowe – called
down from the deck: ‘It is your own blooming business to see that the plug is
in, anyhow.’126
Shortly afterward, the boat reached the water safely. However, No. 5’s
troubles weren’t over yet. There was difficulty in casting off the falls. Norman
Chambers recalled that the ‘little quartermaster had to crawl between our legs
to the amidship portion of the boat in order to reach what was apparently
called the “trigger”, which is, I believe, a mechanism used to release both
falls simultaneously.’127
Next the oars were unshipped and the lifeboat began to row away from the
Titanic. After it had covered only a ‘short distance’, Henry Frauenthal asked
Third Officer Pitman what had occurred. Pitman explained that they had struck
an iceberg; it was the first that the doctor heard about a collision. He then
asked Pitman how long it would be before they would return to the Titanic.
Pitman replied that it would be ‘within half an hour.’128
Despite this, Helen Ostby took careful note of the ship’s orientation in the
water as the lifeboat reached the sea. She said:
By the time we were lowered to the water, the Titanic had begun very
noticeably to go down by the head. The stars were out, but it was pitch
dark. The sea was calm. As we pulled away, we could see the lights
of the ship, and the lighted forward portholes gradually
disappearing.
129
Saloon Steward Thomas Whiteley arrived on the Boat Deck just as Boat No.
5 was lowering away. He quickly busied himself with the loading of the other
lifeboats, and assisted generally where he was needed.130
Philipp Mock and his sister had watched Boat No. 5 load, as well. He
remembered that ‘anyone could have got into’ either that boat or Boat No. 7,
which had left just before, as ‘passengers could not be induced to get into
them.’ He apparently witnessed the trouble that Boat No. 5 had in lowering
away, for he said:
The seamen made bad work of lowering the boats, not being familiar
with handling them. Sometimes one end would be higher than the
other, and other things would happen to alarm those seated in the
boats.
131
Third Class passengers Rhoda Abbott and her young sons, Eugene and
Rossmore, had reached the aft decks ‘just as the second life boat was being
lowered’. They watched as lifeboat after lifeboat was subsequently put off,
and eventually made their way to the Boat Deck.
132
Frederick and Jane Hoyt had watched as Boats Nos 7 and 5 were loaded
and lowered away. Mrs Hoyt recalled that neither boat was anywhere near
full, and that the officers were having some trouble convincing passengers to
leave the ship. Only later on would Mrs Hoyt begin to see lifeboats lowered
with anything approaching a full load.133
While Second Officer Lightoller was working at the port side lifeboats,
Chief Officer Wilde ‘came over from the starboard side and asked, did I
know where the firearms were?’ Apparently Wilde had just talked to
Murdoch about the subject, since the ‘firearms, navigation instruments’, and
the like were the First Officer’s responsibility. However, Murdoch had no
clue where they were. This confusion harked back to the re-shuffling of senior
officers at Southampton prior to sailing; when the firearms had come aboard,
Lightoller was serving in the position of First Officer, and they had been his
responsibility. However, he ‘had simply hove the lot, revolvers and
ammunition into a locker’ in his original cabin, which was now occupied by
Murdoch.
Boats Nos 9, 11 and 13 aboard Titanic.
Since Lightoller knew right where they were, he led Wilde, Captain
Smith, and Murdoch to the First Officer’s cabin, where he brought out the box
of brand new Webley revolvers. Then he turned to leave. As he did, Chief
Wilde ‘shoved one of the revolvers’ into his hands, along with a handful of
ammunition, and said: ‘Here you are, you may need it.’ Lightoller took the
whole lot and stuffed it into the pocket of his greatcoat. The Second Officer
later recalled: ‘The whole incident had not taken three minutes, though it
seemed barely worth that precious time.’134
As they were heading out to the Boat Deck, Wilde said: ‘I am going to put
on my life-belt.’ Lightoller heard this just as he was passing his own quarters.
He had been too busy to think of getting his lifebelt until that point, but upon
hearing the Chief Officer’s comment, he ‘instinctively’ looked into his room,
reached for the lifebelt, and put it on. Lightoller thought to himself that ‘it is
proverbial that the last thing a sailor will think of is a life-belt.’135
Then the Second Officer returned to the port side Boat Deck, and the other
officers dispersed to their respective stations, as well. Charles Stengel, on the
starboard Boat Deck, noticed that the same officer who had threatened to get
his gun after the Frauenthal brothers jumped into Boat No. 5 ‘left the deck
momentarily and came right back again.’136
Saloon Steward William Ward had been present for the loading of Boat
No. 7, but had not been ordered to help man it, even though it was his
assigned boat. As a result, he went aft along the deck to help prepare Boat No.
9. He ‘assisted to take the canvas cover off of her’, and the process continued
from there.
137
Lawrence Beesley was apparently near Boat No. 9 at the time. He
remembered watching men working on that boat, as well as the other three
starboard aft boats.
Just then an officer came along from the first-class deck and shouted
above the noise of escaping steam, ‘All women and children get down
to deck below and all men stand back from the boats.’ He had
apparently been off duty when the ship struck, and was lightly dressed,
with a white muffler twisted hastily round his neck.
138
As this scene played out, it began to sink in with Beesley and some others that
there was real danger in the works. He watched as couples began to separate
on the deck …
Around this time, Captain Smith ordered Lamp Trimmer Hemming to make
sure the boats were provided with lights. Hemming went below and began
lighting the lamps, bringing them up on deck four at a time. He put the lamps
into the boats that weren’t already lowered away, and asked the crewmembers
to pass the lamps down to the end of the falls for the boats that had already
been sent down to the water.
139
Below deck, the damage control efforts were fully under way. At 12:45
a.m., Greaser Scott and others were ordered to open up all of the watertight
doors aft of the Engine Room. At that time, there was no flooding in those
compartments, and the engineers wanted to bring a portable suction pipe
forward, to help combat flooding in one of the forward stokeholds.
Opening only the watertight doors forward of the Engine Room was no
simple task. A phone call had to be placed to the Bridge, to have them release
the clutch. Only after that was done could they operate the individual doors
manually.
140 After the doors had been opened, Scott watched as four men
lugged the suction pipe forward.141 Trimmer Thomas Dillon was among this
group, and he remembered that the men went all the way forward into Boiler
Room No. 4.142
Meanwhile, Steward Joseph Wheat was about to have a somewhat
disconcerting experience. He had left the upper decks just minutes before in
order to return to his quarters on F Deck to retrieve some personal items.
These were located on the port side of the ship, directly behind watertight
bulkhead F, at the bottom of the stairs which led to the Turkish Baths on the
starboard side.
Wheat had previously closed the watertight door between the stairs and
the Swimming Bath, forward of the bulkhead. At that time, he had seen no
water in the spaces forward of the bulkhead. Even at this point, everything
seemed all right as he went down. He checked to make sure everyone – all of
the Turkish Bath attendants and other stewards who were housed there – had
turned out. However, as he started back up the stairs to E Deck, he noticed
that there was a flow of water – something between a trickle and a stream –
coming down the steps. It was flowing quickly, and was just deep enough to
cover the heel of his boots.
Climbing up the soggy stairs to E Deck, he noticed that water was coming
from forward on the starboard side, along the First Class passage, and that it
had turned the corner, entered the vestibule, and was flowing back down the
stairs. Poking his nose through the open emergency door on to the port side,
and looking along Scotland Road, he noticed that that corridor was still dry.
He found that there were ‘five or six’ Third Class passengers there. They
were moving aft, ‘carrying and dragging boxes and bags’. Wheat started off
toward the Boat Deck, going up via the aft working staircase.
143
The water that Wheat saw coming down from E Deck on the aft side of
watertight bulkhead F meant that at that point, water was collecting on the
deck above Boiler Room No. 4. It was also accumulating above Boiler Room
No. 5.
Up on deck, Fourth Officer Boxhall had certainly been one of the busiest
officers in the hour after the collision; once he had finished working out the
ship’s position, and had given it to the Marconi operators, he had returned to
the Bridge to see what the ‘light’ on the horizon was; he had attempted to
investigate it earlier, but had been waylaid by Captain Smith. Now, looking
out from the Bridge, he could clearly see the ‘light’. With the aid of a pair of
binoculars, he could even discern that it was actually the two masthead lights
of a steamer.
144
Boxhall decided to attempt to contact her, apparently using the Morse
lamp first. Captain Smith was nearby, and saw the vessel, as well. As Boxhall
made for the Morse key, Smith concurred by ordering: ‘Tell him to come at
once, we are sinking.’
When he got no response, Boxhall decided to go for a different tactic: He
found the distress rockets that were stored on the Bridge,
145 and prepared to
fire one … surely this detonator would get the vessel’s attention. He placed
the rocket in the socket on the starboard Bridge wing, and then fired it off. The
missile soared high into the sky above the stricken liner, leaving a faint white
streak behind it as it rose. At its peak altitude of 600–800 feet, the rocket
detonated with a deafening report, and ‘the flash of the detonator lit up the
whole deck’ in a brilliant wash of illumination.
146 As it burst, white stars
were thrown out, which slowly descended toward the black sea.
This distress signal got the attention of everyone on deck, and they gasped
a single word in response: ‘Rockets’. On the starboard Boat Deck, just after
he had finished lowering Boat No. 5, Fifth Officer Lowe remembered
standing next to Bruce Ismay at Boat No. 3 and seeing his face clearly in the
brilliant light of the explosion.
Helen Ostby, sitting in Boat No. 5 as it was just pulling away from the
ship, recalled:
As we were sitting there watching, the first of about eight distress
rockets went off, so high in the sky that they startled everyone.
Everybody began to talk in the dark and wonder whether our ship had
been able to send off any wireless messages.
147
Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon pleaded with his wife to get into the lifeboats without
him, but she refused. The officers had tried to snatch up Laura Francatelli, but
she had stuck doggedly to her employers. As Lucy stood on the deck, she
remembered the first rocket being launched. They continued to watch as the
next boats were prepared for loading.
148
Colonel Gracie had handed the ladies in his care off to the care of Sixth
Officer Moody on the Promenade Deck. Then he had a conversation with the
Strauses, who declared that they would not be split up, and sat down on a pair
of deck chairs on the Promenade Deck. Just as Gracie was finishing his
conversation with the Strauses, a steward came along, rolling a small barrel
out of the door from the companionway. ‘What have you there?’ he asked.
‘Bread for the lifeboats,’ came the steward’s ‘quick and cheery reply’.
There must have seemed little proper response to make to that somewhat
incongruous scene, so Gracie simply moved inside on A Deck, and headed
down for his own cabin, C-51. He wished to get some blankets there. Then he
wanted to look for two of his table companions from the Dining Saloon:
Edward Kent and Helen Candee. Before he left the deck, Gracie believed that
he saw the flash of the first rocket launched from the deck.
149
As the Colonel passed down the staircase to C Deck, he passed Fred
Wright, the instructor from the Squash Racquet court.
‘Hadn’t we better cancel that appointment for to-morrow morning?’ I
said rather jocosely to him. ‘Yes’, he replied, but did not stop to tell
what he then must have known of the conditions in the racquet court on
G Deck, which, according to other witnesses, had at that time become
flooded. His voice was calm, without enthusiasm, and perhaps his
face was a little whiter than usual.
150
Lawrence Beesley was watching couples separate at the Boat Deck, and a
vague inkling of danger was beginning to set in with him. But if there were
any doubts on the point, they were erased – ‘in a dramatic manner’ – with the
launching of the first rocket.
Suddenly a rush of light from the forward deck, a hissing roar that
made us all turn from watching the boats, and a rocket leapt upwards
to where the stars blinked and twinkled above us. Up it went, higher
and higher, with a sea of faces upturned to watch it, and then an
explosion that seemed to split the silent night in two, and a shower of
stars sank slowly down and went out one by one. And with a gasping
sigh one word escaped the lips of the crowd: ‘Rockets!’ Anybody
knows what rockets at sea mean.
Beesley stayed rooted to the spot, nearly transfixed by the ‘dramatic intensity
of the scene’ as more rockets soon began to follow the first …151
Philipp Mock was still standing on the sloping decks with his sister Emma
Schabert. They had watched Boat No. 5 make its way to the sea. By that point,
it was becoming clear to him that entering a lifeboat might not be such a bad
idea. There were nerve-racking noises … the steam blowing off from the
boilers … the officers sending up distress rockets … meanwhile, the first
lifeboats were pulling away from the ship in the water … His sister, Emma,
thought that the rocket reports ‘sounded like cannons, and looked like
wonderful fireworks’ which gave them ‘a sensation of awe’.
‘With all these indications that the ship was in dire distress,’ Mock
thought it ‘a wonder’ that the passengers managed to stay so calm. ‘The men
were doing all that they could to help the women into the boats, and the
women were accepting with wonderful courage and heroism the situation they
were forced to meet.’ At that point, Mock had not seen ‘the slightest signs of
panic’ on the starboard side of the ship. He decided that he was going to
attempt to approach the next lifeboat that was loading, with his sister in tow.
The two promised to stick together no matter what happened.152
First Class passenger Clarence Moore.
Meanwhile, Colonel Gracie had gone to his C Deck cabin to get some
blankets. When he had arrived at the door to his room, he found it locked. He
asked a passing steward – who was not his own steward – why this had been
done. The steward replied that it was ‘to prevent looting’. Gracie told him
that he wanted some blankets. The steward then took him to a nearby cabin
where extra blankets were stored, and gave them to Gracie. The Colonel then
headed back up the stairs, perhaps via the Aft Grand Staircase.
When Gracie reached the aft part of A Deck, he began a systematic search
for two of his table companions, Edward Kent and Helen Candee. He moved
‘from aft, forwards, looking in every room and corner’ for them. In the
Smoking Room he came across a single table populated by four men. They
were Archibald Butt, Clarence Moore, Frank Millet, and a fourth person who
Gracie did not know. It occurred to Gracie that these four men must have
known about the collision and the departing of the boats, but that they ‘desired
to show their entire indifference to the danger’.
153
The four men did not stay in the Smoking Room for long, however. Just
afterwards, Saloon Steward Frederick Dent Ray was headed up from helping
Second Steward Dodd find a lifebelt. As he headed toward his assigned
lifeboat, No. 9, he saw Clarence Moore and the same group of gentlemen –
apparently including Major Butt, Frank Millet, and at least one other
individual – exiting the Smoking Room.
154
Very shortly after this, the Thayers were standing in the hallway near their
C Deck staterooms; they had just finished dressing, and it was then that
Marian spotted Archibald Butt passing down the corridor outside. She had
gotten along famously with the Major that evening at dinner, but noticed that
he had a ‘strange unseeing look’ on his face as he came towards them. She
caught hold of his coat as he passed, and said: ‘Major Butt, Major Butt, where
are you going? Come with me.’
He replied: ‘I have something to do first but will come then.’ Mrs Thayer
believed that Butt had ‘gone for his letters’, but he was likely on his way to
check in on someone, as his cabin was located on B Deck.
155 The Thayer
party proceeded up to the deck and waited for further instructions.
Jack Thayer later recalled:
We then hurried up to the lounge on ‘A’ deck, which was now
crowded with people, some standing, some hurrying, some pushing out
onto the deck. My friend Milton Long came by at that time and asked if
he could stay with us. There was a great deal of noise. The band was
playing lively tunes without apparently receiving much attention from
the worried moving audience.
At some point, perhaps around that time, John and young Jack ran into Thomas
Andrews. John Thayer asked Andrews what was going on … how bad the
situation really was. Andrews replied quietly that he did not give the ship
‘much over an hour to live’. The news was stunning, but Jack knew that no
one would know what was really going on better than Andrews.
Jack also remembered that they did not necessarily stay in the same
location all the time, mentioning that at least some of their group also ‘walked
around, looking at different places’. The group stayed on the cold deck for a
few minutes, trying to figure out what they needed to do next. Then they
returned to the ‘crowded hallway where it was warm’. Next they heard the
call for women to go to the port side, and for men to go to starboard. At the
top of the Grand Staircase, John and Jack bade farewell to Marian and
Marian’s maid Margaret Fleming. Then the father and son ‘went out on the
starboard side’ of the Boat Deck, where they walked around for a while,
confident that the two ladies were in good hands. Jack noticed that at that
point, none of the forward lifeboats had yet been launched on that side of the
ship.156
Elsewhere, Ellen Toomey had been waiting in her Second Class cabin for
quite some time. Her cabin companion, Elizabeth Watt, had gone on deck after
the collision to investigate what was going on. She had been gone for so long
that Ellen got up and decided to dress herself. As she put her clothing on, ‘a
steward ran by shouting, “All hands on deck” ’, and as he passed, he threw
her a lifebelt. Ellen was not alarmed, and it was then that Elizabeth Watt
returned and got her daughter Robertha up. Elizabeth told Robertha and Ellen
that ‘no time should be lost’.
Ellen did not finish dressing; meanwhile, Robertha remembered being
awakened at about 1:00 a.m. – although it was likely just before that. She
simply put on her coat and lifebelt. Then the three went up on deck. The
Second Class elevator was ‘not running’, and people were ‘crowding up the
stairway’. One of the ship’s Masters-at-Arms stood with a pistol in his hand,
threatening to shoot Third Class men who tried to get up into Second Class
spaces.
157
Aft, on the starboard side of the Boat Deck, Boat No. 9 was being swung
out. A group that included Steward William Ward, Boatswain’s Mate Haines
and others was working on it at the time. When Saloon Steward Ray came up
on deck and reached his assigned boat, he found that No. 9 was already
uncovered, and about sixteen men were working to swing it out.
An officer – Ray wasn’t sure which one, but he knew it was not Murdoch
– was overseeing the work. Steward Ward remembered that Chief Purser
McElroy was there.
158 However, there were only ‘one or two’ passengers
standing nearby, and it was clear that the lifeboat was not ready to lower
away. Ray ‘went to the rail’ just forward of the lifeboat, ‘looked over and
saw the first boat leaving the ship on the starboard side’. By that point, he was
feeling a little cold, so he decided to go down to his room on E Deck to fetch
his overcoat.
159
At the stern Docking Bridge, Quartermaster Bright – Rowe’s relief – was
supposed to take over the watch at midnight, or 12:23 a.m. unadjusted ship’s
time, ‘but time went by and no relief showed up’.
160 Following the collision,
Rowe had checked the taffrail log, noting that it read 260 miles. With nothing
else to do, he stood on the Docking Bridge awaiting orders through the
telephone, or his relief, whichever came first.
161 He had been standing watch
in the frigid night air for quite some time, and must have wondered what the
delay was.
Forward, Quartermaster Bright had experienced a rude awakening. He
had slept right through the accident. Not only was he awakened by
Quartermaster Walter Wynn with the jarring news that the ship was going
down by the head, but also with the realization that in the post-collision
confusion, he somehow ended up being late in turning out to relieve Rowe.
Once Bright arrived at the stern, he and Rowe stood together on the Docking
Bridge, talking, apparently not sure of ‘exactly what they should do’.
162
Around the time that Boat No. 5 had been lowered and the first rocket was
launched from the Bridge, Quartermaster Rowe spotted Boat No. 7 in the
water, just off the starboard side of the ship. It is possible that he saw it
because the flash of the detonator illuminated the ocean, although this is
speculation.
163 He remarked on the sighting to Bright and phoned up to the
Bridge.
On the Bridge, the phone rang shortly after Boxhall had fired the first
rocket, just while he was ‘putting the firing lanyard inside the wheel-house’.
When the phone chimed, it must have seemed a bit incongruous with the
events going on around the Fourth Officer. He picked it up, however, and
heard a man’s voice report that one of the starboard boats had left the ship.
Boxhall was surprised; he had heard no order to lower the boats. He asked if
the caller was Third Officer Pitman, to which Rowe responded in the
negative. Despite the confusing nature of the call, it was well-timed. Boxhall
ordered Rowe to fetch the extra detonators for the distress rockets from the
stern and bring them to the Bridge.
164
Now the two Quartermasters knew exactly what they needed to do …
Rowe and Bright left the aft Docking Bridge, dropped down to the Poop Deck
and each picked up a box of rockets. Then they set off together and made for
the Bridge.
165
When Rowe and Bright arrived, Boxhall worked with the two
Quartermasters at sending up more distress rockets, at intervals of
approximately five minutes. This was in accord with international maritime
regulations, which stated that rockets were to be sent up ‘at short intervals’ to
signal distress. The men were careful to make sure that no one was on the
deck nearby who could be injured if something went wrong with the firing.
Boxhall chased people away from the area of Boat No. 1 with this in mind,
since it was located directly aft of the Bridge wing.
166 All the while, he and
Rowe continued to Morse the other vessel on the horizon. Although some
believed that they saw the other ship responding, Boxhall could not make out
any definite response from her, despite their desperate attempts at
communication.
167
Back below deck, shortly after receiving reassurance from a steward that
the ship had struck a fishing boat and that there was no danger, Lillian
Bentham had gotten into bed and fallen fast asleep. How long she was asleep
she did not know, but eventually one of her friends – Albert Denbuoy – came
by and knocked on the door, waking her up. Lillian got up and opened the
door. Denbuoy must have been shocked to see that she had been in bed. He
informed her that people were then ‘taking to the lifeboats’. She quickly threw
a waterproof coat and a fur coat on, and then she hurried up on deck with her
friend.168
Meanwhile, Saloon Steward Frederick Ray had decided to go down to his
quarters for his coat, which were located on the port side of E Deck, about
amidships. When he arrived, he found the room completely empty. He put his
overcoat on, and then headed forward along Scotland Road. He found that …
… the forward part of E Deck was under water. I could just manage to
get through the doorway into the main stairway [First Class Grand
Staircase]. I went across to the other side of the ship where the
passengers’ cabins were; saw nobody there. I looked to see where the
water was and it was corresponding on that side of the ship to the port
side.
The situation was clearly serious, but Ray turned and went up the Grand
Staircase at a ‘leisurely pace’.
169
Meanwhile, Steward Wheat had made his way up to B Deck by way of the
service stairs, aft of the Dining Saloon. When he arrived at B Deck, he ran
across Chief Steward Andrew Latimer. Wheat noticed that Latimer ‘had his
big coat on with a life belt over it’. Wheat told Latimer that he should take
both off, put the lifebelt back on, and then put the overcoat on over that.
Otherwise ‘his big coat would be no use to him’. Then Wheat started off
forward, making his way toward the Grand Staircase.
170
* * * * *
Nearby, on the Leyland liner Californian – prudently stopped in the ice – all
was quiet. The officers who were on watch, as well as at least one off-duty
crewman, all saw a number of white rockets fired from the ship to their
southeast, spaced several minutes apart.
171 Captain Lord, napping fully
clothed on the Chart Room settee just across from his cabin, was alerted at
least once.
172 He ordered the men to signal the other ship with a Morse lamp,
but never woke up his wireless operator to see what was going on, and did
not even bother to go up to the Bridge himself and check on the situation.
By a little after two o’clock in the morning, the steamer that those on the
Californian were watching with interest had disappeared from sight.
173
* * * * *
Back on the Titanic, the rockets had stunned the crowds of people on deck: it
was a sudden and most powerful warning of danger. Before then, all had been
calm, and there had not seemed to be that much danger. But now, even the
most optimistic passengers were beginning to think twice about what they
needed to do. The situation was perhaps, they realized, more desperate than
they had thought only minutes before.
Yet many still hesitated to commit to the lifeboats. On the port side of the
Boat Deck, First Class passenger Mary Smith declined to board Boat No. 8.
Her husband Lucien later forced her to separate from him and board No. 6.174
The forward port side lifeboats on Titanic. No. 8 sits in the foreground, while No. 2 is visible in the
distance.
First Class Passengers Isidor and Ida Straus were alongside No. 8 as it
loaded. Mrs Straus helped her maid, Ellen Bird, board the craft, before
stepping onto the gunwales of the boat. She then had second thoughts, handing
her maid her fur coat, saying that she would not be needing it. She stepped
back onto the Boat Deck and clung to Isidor. ‘We have been together all these
years. Where you go I go,’ she exclaimed.175
First Class passenger May Futrelle had just been separated from her
husband when orders came through for men and women to split up. Standing
on the deck right by Boat No. 8, she had also witnessed Mrs Straus clinging to
her husband. She heard Ida say ‘to an officer who was trying to induce her to
get into a boat: “No, we are too old, we will die together.” ’176
By then, Able Bodied Seaman Thomas Jones had been ordered into No. 8.
He too witnessed the Straus’ refusal to separate, but couldn’t hear what Mrs
Straus said ‘because the steam was blowing so and making such a noise’. He
also remembered seeing an officer, whom he assumed was the First Officer
but was almost certainly was Second Officer Lightoller, ‘running around
there’.
177
Initially, First Class passengers Margaret Swift and Dr Alice Leader had
no intention of leaving the ship. However, ‘on second thought’ the two ladies
had crossed over to the port side and joined the group of women near Boat
No. 8. She remembered that some of the women ‘would not leave their
husbands until persuaded that the men would follow later on the other boats.
With this pledge the women consented to leave the ship. They all believed, as
I did, that the vessel would not sink.’ However Mrs Swift had watched as
Mrs Straus flatly refused to be separated from her husband.178
On the starboard side, First Officer Murdoch placed Able Bodied Seaman
George Moore in charge of Boat No. 3, since the only other sailor aboard was
Able Bodied Seaman James Anderson. The crew loaded as many women and
children into the boat as they could, and when no more were left nearby that
were willing to board, Murdoch allowed some of the men on the scene to
climb aboard.
Among the passengers put aboard No. 3 were Albert and Vera Dick. Not
long before, they had received reassurances from Thomas Andrews that
although the ship was badly damaged, she likely would not sink. As a result,
the Dicks were ‘indifferent about leaving the steamship’.
179
Philipp Mock and his sister Emma Schabert also approached Boat No. 3
as it was loading. Philipp asked the men if they might enter the boat together,
and they were told that they could not. The men urged Mrs Schabert to get in
alone; she, in turn, asked if her brother could go. The officer refused, and so
she declined to leave the ship. Bruce Ismay attempted to intervene and get her
into the boat, but she again declined. The Chairman of the White Star Line
then said to her: ‘You made a great mistake not to get into that boat.’ Emma
replied: ‘It does not matter. I prefer staying with my brother.’ In total, the pair
was denied access to the lifeboats four times.
180
No. 3 began lowering away at 12:55 a.m., becoming the third lifeboat to
leave the ship. Approximately thirty-two of its sixty-five seats were
occupied.181
Back in the Marconi room, Jack Phillips was still pounding out distress
signals. He had managed to reach other vessels, but the Carpathia was still
the closest to respond. Even with the events transpiring on deck, Harold Bride
saw humor in the situation and suggested that Phillips begin sending SOS,
because ‘it’s the new call, and it may be your last chance to send it.’ Phillips
laughed, and at 12:57 a.m., switched to the suggested call, hoping to contact a
closer ship.182
The First SOS?
Prior to the use of the signal SOS, the three letters CQD were used to call for assistance.
CQD had been standardized by the Marconi International Marine Company in February of
1904. What did CQD mean? It has often been described as an acronym for ‘Come
Quickly, Distress’ or other similar phrases. However, the truth of the call sign’s meaning is
far simpler. The first two letters, ‘CQ’ were typically used by wireless operators to get the
attention of all stations within hearing range. The addition of the ‘D’ was understood to
mean ‘distress,’ thus forming a three-letter abbreviation for: ‘Allstations: distress.’
However, the transmission of CQD was not without its drawbacks. First, it was easy
for listeners to miss the ‘D’ at the end if the transmission was poor or at a great distance.
Secondly, the three-letter sign was not an international standard. The distress signal SOS,
for example, had been introduced in Germany in 1905. It was proposed as a replacement
for CQD during the 1906 International Wireless Telegraph Convention in Berlin.
SOS was a far simpler transmission to send and understand by the receiving operator.
Britain and other nations had voted to adopt the Berlin conference proposals in 1908, but
wireless operators on British ships were not quick to adopt the new regulation call. They
continued to use CQD for years afterward.
In the century since the disaster, popular myth has held that Titanic was the first ship
to use the wireless distress call SOS. However, this claim has absolutely no basis in fact.
SOS had been used numerous times by ships in the years prior to the Titanic disaster. One
of the earliest reports of this distress call being sent was on August 11, 1909, when the SS
Arapahoe of the Clyde Line broke her propeller shaft and sent out an SOS call.
183
Despite what Bride thought, SOS was technically not new. It may have been a new-er
call for British wireless operators in 1912, but the simple fact is that it had been proposed,
adopted, and used many times before the Titanic sank.
184
Far below Bride and Phillips, the battle against incoming seawater was
still being fought by the ship’s crewmen and engineers. Despite their valiant
efforts, and in most cases completely without their knowledge, that battle was
being lost irrevocably. In Boiler Room No. 5, Leading Fireman Fred Barrett
and his men had just finished drawing the fires shortly before 12:55 a.m. With
this accomplished, the firemen had been ordered back up out of the
stokeholds. Barrett stayed behind and continued to work in Boiler Room No.
5.185
It was within just a few minutes, or at about 12:55 a.m., that Barrett was
ordered by Junior Assistant Second Engineer Harvey to lift a manhole plate in
the floor of Boiler Room No. 5. Harvey had him do this so that they could get
access to valves for the pumps. Barrett did as he was asked. Because water
had been thrown on the fires when they were being drawn, the compartment
was thick with steam, greatly reducing visibility. Junior Assistant Second
Engineer Shepherd was hurrying through the area, and not seeing the danger,
fell into the manhole, breaking his leg. Unable to walk, Harvey and Barrett
lifted their injured crewmate up, and carried him into the pump room.
186
While everything seemed to be all right in that boiler room – the pumps
were running, the floor plates were dry despite the list – appearances were
very deceiving. Already, water was flooding aft along E Deck, snaking its
way as far as the spaces above their compartment, Boiler Room No. 5, and
the next compartment aft, Boiler Room No. 4. It was only a matter of time
before that water found its way back down into those two boiler rooms. The
battle was being lost, and the men on the front lines were not even aware of it.
Up top, Lawrence Beesley had been watching the firing of the rockets
from his position aft on the Boat Deck. While no definitive word that the ship
was sinking had reached him, he said that every one still knew ‘without being
told that we were calling for help from any one who was near enough to see’.
He watched as the crew had begun to work on the aft starboard lifeboats, and
soon he saw two ladies from Second Class move to the rail which separated
the Second and First Class portions of the Boat Deck. They encountered an
officer there, and asked him: ‘May we pass to the boats?’
This photo shows the railings which divided Titanic’s starboard Boat Deck into three segments.
Forward, in the distance, was deck space for First Class passengers; between the two rails was
the Engineers’ Promenade; astern of the rails the deck was set aside for the use of Second Class
passengers.
‘No, madam,’ the officer replied politely, ‘your boats are down on your
own deck.’ Then he pointed to the aft lifeboats, which were being worked on
then.
At about the same time, Beesley heard ‘a report’ which circulated among
the men on the starboard side of the Boat Deck. Word had it that women were
to be loaded into boats from the starboard side of the ship, and that men were
to be taken off on the port side. Beesley said that this report was ‘acted on at
once by almost all the men’, who crossed over to the port side, causing the
crowds on that portion of the deck to begin to swell. This left the starboard
side ‘almost deserted’. Beesley did not follow them, but instead decided to
remain on the starboard side. A couple of others did so, as well. He wasn’t
sure why he stayed, but he recognized ‘the necessity of being quiet and
waiting in patience for some opportunity of safety to present itself’. Just after
this, Beesley saw a strange sight … a bandsman – the cellist – come round the
vestibule corner from the staircase entrance and run down the now deserted
starboard deck, his ‘cello trailing behind him, the spike dragging on the
floor’. Beesley stayed on the deck, watching events unfold around him.
187
1:00 a.m. – 1:15 a.m.
At Boat No. 9, Steward William Ward and the others had lowered the lifeboat
down until it was level with the Boat Deck. After they had finished this, Ward
noticed that ‘a sailor came along with a bag and threw it in the boat. This man
said he had been sent down to take charge of the boat by the captain.’
Boatswain’s Mate Haines was not about to stand for this. He ordered the man
out of the boat, and the man meekly complied, and then stood nearby for
several minutes.
188
Meanwhile, forward, First Class passenger Major Arthur Peuchen had
just reached the Boat Deck. There he noticed a group of about ‘100’ stokers
with their kit bags, seemingly ‘crowding this whole deck in front of the boats’.
Unlike many of the passengers, these men had come up from below, and knew
the extent of the flooding. One of the officers – whom Peuchen described as
‘powerful’, and who may have been Chief Officer Wilde – came along and
drove the men right out of the area. The stokers did not protest, and
cooperated with the officer.
189
Second Officer Lightoller had been very busy at the forward port boats.
After lowering Boat No. 4 to the Promenade Deck level and getting held up by
the closed windows there, he had decided to move on to the next two boats
aft, Nos 6 and 8. Of these, Boat No. 8, loaded by Chief Officer Wilde, was to
get away first. Lightoller interpreted the traditional rules of evacuation at sea
to mean ‘women and children only,’ not simply ‘first.’ Yet, the ship still
seemed relatively safe – safer than a lifeboat, at any rate – and he and Chief
Officer Wilde did not get many volunteers.
When Lightoller arrived alongside No. 6, he noticed for the first time that
the ship was ‘distinctly down by the head’.
190 Mercifully, the racket from the
steam blowing off had ceased while work on the forward port boats
progressed. In all, after starting around 11:46 p.m., the racket had continued
for over an hour.
191 Now Lightoller and the other crewmen found it much
easier to communicate on the Boat Deck. Lightoller said that when the din
finally stopped, ‘there was a death-like silence a thousand times more
exaggerated, fore and aft the ship. It was almost startling to hear one’s own
voice again …’192
In the absence of the cacophonous venting noise, the music of the ship’s
band now drifted pleasantly out from inside the Boat Deck level of the First
Class Entrance, not far from where Lightoller was working. They were trying
to keep the passengers calm and allay panic. Lightoller noted that while he
didn’t like ‘jazz’ music as a general rule, he was glad to hear it that night.
193
Lightoller filled Boat No. 6 while Captain Smith, Chief Officer Wilde,
and other crewmembers prepared to send Boat No. 8 away. During the
previous ten minutes or so, passengers had been loaded into it. Many had
proved, and were still proving, reluctant to board the small boats, refusing to
leave their loved ones.
Meanwhile, Emma Bucknell and her maid had proceeded onto the Boat
Deck and watched as the crew had finished preparing the lifeboats for loading
and lowering. She hadn’t been particularly impressed with the speed of the
crew’s efforts, but at last, Boat No. 8 was ready to load. Finally Mrs Bucknell
and her maid joined those who were boarding the craft. Emma remembered:
Wives and husbands were separated when the women were placed in
our boat. A few of the men grew seemingly desperate, and Captain
Smith, who was standing by, cried out: ‘Behave yourselves like men!
Look at all of these women. See how splendid they are. Can’t you
behave like men?’
All of the women were calm, though they had just been torn from
their beloved ones. There was only one, a little Spanish bride [Maria
Peñasco y Castellana], who cried out hysterically for her husband,
who was held back by other men.
Then Captain Smith himself picked up a big basket of bread and
handed it across to me in the lifeboat. That was all the provisions I
saw …
… ‘There is a light out there,’ said Captain Smith to the man in
charge of our lifeboat which contained thirty-five persons. ‘Take the
women to it and hurry back as speedily as possible.’194
The Countess of Rothes and her cousin, Gladys Cherry, had also climbed into
Boat No. 8. They remembered that Victor Peñasco nearly had to toss his wife
Maria into the arms of the ladies already into the boat, and that he then asked
them to take care of her.
195
Captain Smith called out for ‘Any more ladies?’ One more lady separated
from her husband and boarded No. 8, as did a little girl. The lady wanted her
husband to go with her, but he quietly backed away from the boat. The call for
further women and children went out twice more, but none were forthcoming.
At 1:00 a.m., the order to lower away was given. Captain Smith had ordered
Able Bodied Seaman Thomas Jones to row for the light of the ship on the
horizon, land the passengers there, and then return.
196
After watching Mrs Straus refuse to be separated from her husband, Mrs
Swift and Dr Alice Leader had changed their minds about boarding Boat No.
8. Mrs Swift decided …
… that it would be well to go into one of the boats, too, and the
officers advised us to do so.
It was a clear, starlit night. The heavens were beautiful. The boats
were provisioned and in ours we had two barrels of water and some
bread.
The captain, poor, dear, brave man, threw in another loaf as we
pulled away. I am sorry to say that I sat with my foot on that loaf for
some time. As we went the captain told us to pull for a light that was
far, far away from the Titanic.
197
As Boat No. 8 was lowered to the water, Gladys Cherry thought that she had
done a very foolish thing to exchange the warmth and safety of the Titanic’s
decks for the cold uncertainty of a lifeboat in the middle of the Atlantic at
night.
198
As May Futrelle watched the lifeboat lower away – at the Captain’s order,
she recalled – she decided that she could not leave her husband … not yet.
I was afraid, the water looked so treacherous. I ran back, threw my
arms around his neck and said, ‘Jack, I don’t want to leave you.’
‘Oh, do be calm dear’, he said, and he allowed me to stay with him
for a while. He said there was no great hurry and that I might remain
with him a few minutes.
199
Meanwhile, loading at Boat No. 6 continued. First Class passenger Martha
Stone peered over the edge of the Boat Deck before boarding No. 6, and
noticed all of the empty seats in No. 8, which had by then reached the
water.
200 Boat No. 8 had left with twenty-five of its sixty-five seats
occupied.201
First Class passenger Leila Meyer was standing on the Boat Deck with
her husband Edgar. At this point, Mrs Meyer did not wish to leave her
husband. She begged him to come with her onto a lifeboat, but he refused,
wishing to stay behind until all of the women had been taken care of. He
reminded his wife of their one-year-old daughter, who was not traveling with
them at the time. This finally convinced Leila to board Boat No. 6. She was
able to watch as her husband helped a number of other women into the
lifeboats, and then she lost sight of him in the crowd.202
It was at this time that Denver socialite Margaret Brown headed toward
Boat No. 6. She convinced one of her fellow passengers, Berthe Antonine
Mayné, to go into the boat instead of heading back to her cabin for her money
and jewels. Then Margaret started to walk away from the edge of the deck,
interested in seeing what was going on with the lifeboats on the starboard
side. But suddenly, there was ‘a shadow, and a few seconds later I was taken
hold of’. The officer told her: ‘You are going, too.’ Then she was dropped
into the lifeboat.
203
Down below, Mess Steward Cecil Fitzpatrick had gone back to sleep
after the collision. He was only awakened again when a fireman came in to
the Mess Steward’s room on E Deck and tried to take a lifebelt. Fitzpatrick
and the other men in the room refused to let the man have it, and the fireman
then passed on word that the Chief Engineer wanted them to muster. As a
result, Fitzpatrick and his mates turned out and headed topside.
204
Meanwhile, back on the starboard side of the Boat Deck, First Officer
Murdoch had been working at Emergency Boat No. 1, getting it ready for
lowering. The loading of this boat was delayed, in part because Fourth
Officer Boxhall had to keep chasing people away from the area while he was
firing the rockets. He was afraid the detonator would injure anyone standing
nearby, since No. 1 was located just aft of the Bridge wing.
205
Olympic’s Bridge and Bridge wing on the starboard side, with Boat No. 1 visible behind the
bulwark rail. Fourth Officer Boxhall had to be careful that passengers and crew were not injured
as he fired rockets while work on Boat No. 1 was under way.
Sir Cosmo and Lady Lucy Duff Gordon, along with Laura Francatelli,
were standing right nearby. Sir Cosmo had pleaded with his wife to leave in
one of the previous boats, but she and her secretary had refused to go. They
were going to stick together no matter what. ‘Promise me’, she told him, ‘that
whatever you do you will not let them separate us.’ Lucy recalled that after
the launching of Boat No. 3 …
… everyone in the vicinity had disappeared, except for some sailors
who were launching a little boat [No. 1].
… Seeing nobody else about my husband asked the officer whether
we might get into it, and on receiving his permission we were helped
in …206
In another of her accounts, she remembered the exact wording of the officer’s
response: ‘Please do.’207
By this time, First Class passenger Charles Stengel had already seen his
wife off in Boat No. 5. He had watched the loading of Boat No. 3, and then
turned and moved forward along the deck until he reached Boat No. 1. At the
time, he was feeling ‘agitated somewhat’. Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon, his wife
Lucy, and her secretary Laura Francatelli were already in the boat at that
point. However, it was so dark that Stengel could hardly make out more than
human forms in the boat. As there was no one else around, he approached
Murdoch and asked if he could get into the boat.
The First Officer replied: ‘Jump in.’
Stengel set out to climb in, but in clambering over the bulwark rail, he had
trouble doing so. Eventually, he ended up rolling over the teak top-rail and
into the boat.
Murdoch had been watching, and laughed heartily. He then said: ‘That is
the funniest sight I have seen to-night.’
Stengel started to feel better about the situation a little. If this officer could
laugh so freely, perhaps things weren’t that bad after all …
Just then Abraham Salomon, a 43-year-old New York businessman, also
asked Murdoch if he could board. Murdoch told him he could, and he was
soon in the boat beside Stengel and the Duff Gordon party.
208
Once a total of twelve people – five passengers and seven members of the
crew – were aboard, Murdoch ordered the boat to be lowered away.
209 The
capacity of the smaller emergency boats was forty. It was about 1:05 a.m., just
in between the lowering of Boats Nos 8 and 6 on the port side, when No. 1
left the deck.
On the port side, because Second Officer Lightoller had sent Boatswain
Alfred Nichols and six other crewmen below to open the gangway doors, he
was facing a critical shortage of manpower as he loaded Boat No. 6. It was
primarily because of this shortage that the forward port boats got away from
the ship quite a few minutes after the forward starboard boats had started
lowering. Lightoller was also facing another issue which was delaying his
work: many of the passengers still had to be coaxed into boarding the
lifeboats. The Titanic seemed much safer than being lowered into the ocean in
a tiny boat in the middle of the night. Also, as the passengers had earlier been
sent down to A Deck, and then were told to go back up to the Boat Deck, there
was obviously some confusion about where the passengers should even
assemble.
Because the crewmen had not returned from below, Lightoller was
‘reduced to sending one seaman away in a boat’. When he was ready to give
the order to lower away, nobody was manning the aft davits of Boat No. 6, so
Lightoller called out for ‘somebody for the after-fall’. Although he had
previously been ordered into the boat by the Second Officer, Lamp Trimmer
Samuel Hemming realized there were no crewmembers to answer the call,
and stepped back onboard, saying: ‘Aye, aye, sir! All ready.’210
Boat No. 6 began lowering away at about 1:10 a.m.
211 Quartermaster
Robert Hichens, who had been at the ship’s helm when the iceberg was struck,
was aboard. So was Lookout Frederick Fleet, who had spotted the iceberg
from the Crow’s Nest. Hichens sat at the tiller at the stern of the boat, and
appointed himself in charge. By the time No. 6 began lowering away, it
appears that the 5° starboard list had lessened somewhat, but the edge of the
boat was still resting against the ship’s side. The occupants had to ‘put our
hands out several times’ to push it away from the Titanic’s hull.
212 Third
Officer Pitman hadn’t noticed the list at all when Boat No. 5 was lowered
away at 12:43 a.m.
213 This suggests that at that point, the starboard list had
been slight enough that it hadn’t caused Boat No. 5 to swing far enough away
from the hull to interfere with the loading.
Boat No. 6 was halfway down the ship’s side when it began to tip, with its
bow angling downward sharply. It was very reminiscent of the earlier
problems lowering Boat No. 5. Quartermaster Hichens yelled up to Lightoller
to hold the bow steady, and to lower away at the stern. Then the boat evened
out. Hichens also shouted up that they had no seaman to help row. Lightoller
observed: ‘We will have to have some more seamen here.’ Then he called
out: ‘Any seaman there?’
Major Peuchen, then standing right near Lightoller, said: ‘Can I be of any
assistance? I am a yachtsman, and can handle a boat with an average man, if I
can be of any use to you.’
Captain Smith was standing nearby at the time, and suggested to Peuchen:
‘You had better go down below and break a window and get in through a
window, into the boat.’
This proposal didn’t seem feasible to Peuchen. Then Lightoller suggested
to the Major: ‘If you’re seaman enough to get out on those falls, and get down
into the boat, then you may go ahead.’ This struck Peuchen as a better idea, so
he reached out, grabbed the falls, and lowered himself safely into the boat.
214
Including the Major, Boat No. 6 had approximately twenty-three persons in it
when it cast off. It had room for sixty-five.
215
As soon as the boat reached the ocean, Quartermaster Hichens told
Peuchen, who was then helping unhook the falls: ‘Hurry up. This boat is going
to founder.’ The Major at first thought Hichens was referring to the lifeboat,
but he soon realized the Quartermaster meant the Titanic, and that he was in a
hurry to row away from the liner.
216 Hichens later said that he felt that
Peuchen was ‘not in the boat more than 10 minutes before he wanted to come
and take charge of the boat.’
Margaret Brown noticed as the boat was lowered that water was entering
the ship through an open porthole on D Deck. Upon looking up, she saw
Captain Smith peering down at them ‘like a solicitous father’, ordering them
‘to row to the light in the distance, and all the boats keep together.’217
Deep in the innards of the ship, it had been less than fifteen minutes since
Junior Assistant Second Engineer Jonathan Shepherd had broken his leg in
Boiler Room No. 5. Things still seemed to be relatively normal there … the
pumps were working away, the fires had been drawn. Although the bunker on
the forward side of the compartment was quite full of seawater, the Boiler
Room itself was still dry.
At about 1:10 a.m., however, all notions of normalcy were suddenly
shattered. Frederick Barrett saw a terrific rush of water coming through the
pass in between the boilers. Junior Assistant Engineer Herbert Harvey
ordered him up top, and Barrett did not look back. He immediately climbed
up the escape ladder, only barely escaping the flood of water. Coming up to E
Deck, Barrett saw water coming down the alleyway from forward of where
he escaped from Boiler Room No. 5. He speculated that this might have been
due to water reaching open portholes on the lower decks.
218
Meanwhile, Third Class passenger Laura Cribb and her father arrived on
the Boat Deck. Laura remembered that immediately thereafter, ‘officers came
up and told father to put the lifebelt on me. This he did, then telling me to get
as near the lifeboats as I could.’ Without a word of farewell passed between
the two, she did just as her father said, separating, yet fully expecting to see
him again soon.
219
By then, Archibald Gracie had left the Smoking Room and moved forward
along the Promenade Deck. He peered into every public room on the deck,
looking for his table companions, with no success. Eventually, Gracie headed
up toward the port side of the Boat Deck. Emerging there, he found Clinch
Smith. Smith told the Colonel that their acquaintance, Helen Candee, had
already departed in Boat No. 6. From that point forward, Smith and Gracie
stuck together, ‘part of the time on the Boat Deck, and part on the deck below
it, called Deck A.’220
1:15 a.m. – 1:30 a.m.
After seeing flooding forward on E Deck, almost to the lowest level of the
Grand Staircase, Saloon Steward Ray ‘walked leisurely up to the main
stairway, passed two or three people on the way, saw the two pursers in the
purser’s office and the clerks busy at the safe taking things out and putting
them in bags.’
When on C Deck, where the Purser’s Office was located, Ray bumped
into First Class passenger Martin Rothschild, who he knew from a previous
trip on the Olympic, and Ray decided to wait for him. Ray noticed that
Rothschild’s wife wasn’t with him, so he asked where she was. Rothschild
told Ray that he had already seen his wife safely away in Boat No. 6.
‘This seems rather serious,’ Ray remarked to Rothschild, but without
telling him about the flooding he had seen below.
‘I do not think there is any occasion for it,’ Rothschild replied.221
On the forward starboard side of the Boat Deck, Fifth Officer Lowe had
been assisting at Boat No. 1. As the boat lowered past B Deck, it got caught
up on what was alternately described as a ‘wire guy’ and a ‘painter’, and
could not be freed.222 A crewmember was sent below to chop away this wire
before the lowering continued. The lowering of a lifeboat normally took
around five minutes, but this delay seems to have added an additional five
minutes to the lowering. This would have prevented No. 1 from reaching the
water until approximately 1:15 a.m. Once the boat touched down in the sea,
the crewmembers manning it were told to ‘stand off a little way and come
back when called.’223
Lady Duff Gordon recalled that, as the boat began its descent, the water
below them looked ‘black and deep’, and she hated the idea of leaving the big
liner for their ‘frail little boat’. She also recalled:
Just beside us was a man sending off rockets, and the earsplitting
noise added to the horror of being suspended in mid-air while one of
the lowering ropes got caught and was only released after what
seemed an interminable time.
224
Once the lowering resumed, an order was shouted down from Murdoch: ‘Pull
off away from the boat as quickly as possible, at least two hundred yards.’
When the boat pulled off, Lady Duff Gordon could see the man sending off the
rockets.
225
As Boat No. 1 began rowing away from the ship, Lookout George Symons
saw that she was down by the bow to a shocking extent. As he watched, the
second row of portholes under Titanic’s nameplate were submerging into the
sea.
226
With all four of the forward starboard boats lowered away, Murdoch and
his men began to move aft. On the port side of the ship, Boat No. 4 was still in
limbo; it had been lowered to A Deck but still had not been loaded because of
the closed Promenade windows. For the time being, it was left to wait while
the officers’ attention turned to getting the aft lifeboats away.
Fifth Officer Lowe recalled why their attention was so focused on the
after port quarter at that time. While he was finishing up at No. 1, a large
crowd of male passengers were beginning to congregate at the aft port boats,
and they were starting to get unruly. Lawrence Beesley explained why this
large crowd was growing; he recalled that shortly before this, a rumor began
to circulate on the starboard side that men were to be taken off on the port
side, and that all the men had headed to that location as a result.
227
Lowe immediately headed aft to assist, ‘as they seemed to be busy
there’.
228 Other crewmembers – such as Able Bodied Seamen Frank Evans
and Edward Buley, both of whom had been working on the forward starboard
boats – also turned and headed to the aft port boats.
229 The need for as many
crewmen as could be assembled to assist and calm the crowds aft on the port
side seems to explain the delay between the loading and lowering of the
forward starboard boats and the aft starboard ones.
By about 1:15 a.m., Boats Nos 7, 5, 3, 8, 1 and 6 had left the ship. That
made six boats to leave in the hour and thirty-five minutes that had elapsed
since the collision, four of them on the starboard side under the careful
oversight of First Officer Murdoch.
However, there was not much time left … at the bow, the water was
creeping, climbing, crawling ever higher against the black steel hull plates,
sliding closer to the anchor, even closer to the ship’s name at the prow, and
toward the forward Well Deck and Forecastle. Simultaneously, the mood
aboard the liner was beginning to change. What had before been a jovial
curiosity was now becoming an obvious realization that there was something
significantly wrong with the ship, and that the lifeboats were not, after all,
such a bad-looking place to be. Because of this, the aft lifeboats were
consistently going to be the fullest boats to be launched from the stricken liner.
However, even with the danger becoming apparent, some passengers were
still unwilling to accept the reality of the situation, or to depart from their
friends and relatives. Many of these opted to stay onboard despite the risks.
Some were subsequently forced into the boats by crewmembers or their
relatives and friends.
At Boat No. 14, Able Bodied Seaman Joseph Scarrott was in the midst of
the ‘busy’ scene that Lowe had noticed. As he had finished the prep work at
that boat, Chief Officer Wilde had ordered him to start loading women and
children into it. He managed to get about twenty women into the boat before a
group of men tried to rush the boat. He believed they were ‘foreigners’
because they didn’t seem to understand his orders. Scarrott had to ‘use a bit of
persuasion’ – ‘persuasion’ meaning that he had to use the boat’s tiller on them
– to force the men back and keep the situation under control.
230
When Fifth Officer Lowe crossed over to the port side aft boats after
finishing at Boat No. 1, he was headed toward the scene that Scarrott was in
the thick of. On the way, Lowe ran across Sixth Officer James Moody. ‘What
are you doing?’ he asked.
‘I am getting these boats away,’ Moody replied.
Lowe remarked that he had seen a number of boats leave the ship without
an officer, and that he thought one of them should go in one of the two boats
they were near, Nos 14 and 16. He gave Moody first choice of which of them
it was to be.
‘You go,’ Moody replied. ‘I will get in another boat.’231 Although he was
the most junior of the ship’s officers and would have been completely
justified in leaving the ship at that time, the Sixth Officer declined a place in
the boats, opting instead to remain and assist in the evacuation effort. His
selfless choice resulted in Lowe’s survival, a fact which Lowe would never
forget.
The two men then moved to their respective charges, Lowe to No. 14, and
Moody to No. 16. The two boats began filling almost simultaneously. Lowe
later recalled that Second Officer Lightoller showed up briefly at No. 14.232
However, he didn’t stay long, and soon moved on to Boat No. 12.
A fine artist’s rendering of the scene on the port side Boat Deck as Boat No. 16 was filled. The
accuracy of the artwork is stunning. Please compare with the photograph of Titanic’s Boat Deck
from nearly the same perspective taken in Queenstown, seen on page 101.
When the Fifth Officer first arrived at No. 14, the crewmen informed him
that they had been having trouble keeping the crowds under control. With this
in mind, Lowe began to oversee the effort of loading the craft.
Second Class passengers Harvey and Charlotte Collyer, and their daughter
Marjorie, were standing nearby as No. 14 was loading. Charlotte thought that
Fifth Officer Lowe was ‘young and boyish-looking, but somehow he
compelled people to obey him’. She also thought she had seen First Officer
Murdoch near No. 14 early on in that boat’s loading process, but by the time
she boarded, she believed he had moved to another portion of the deck.
233
Boat No. 14 was about half-full when a sailor snatched up little Marjorie and
put her in the boat.
Suddenly, someone shouted at Mrs Collyer: ‘You, too! You’re a woman.
Take a seat in that boat, or it will be too late.’ Mrs Collyer felt the deck’s
steep angle, but she clung to her husband. It took two men to tear her from him.
He said: ‘Go, Lotty! For God’s sake be brave and go. I’ll get a seat in another
boat.’ She was dumped into the boat, landing on her shoulder and bruising it
rather badly. Rushing to her feet, she glanced back to see her husband walk
steadily away into a crowd of men, where she lost sight of him.
234
Meanwhile, Sixth Officer Moody had busied himself at Boat No. 16.
Earlier, there had been a group of firemen and sailors standing around the boat
with their bags, waiting to get aboard it. When Scullion John Collins arrived
alongside on the scene, he thought there was ‘no chance [of boarding] there’,
and quickly moved on.
235
Despite the crowd, things were a bit calmer than at No. 14. However, as
First Class Stewardess Violet Jessop boarded No. 16, along with her cabinmate, she thought that Moody looked ‘weary and tired’. Even so, he gave them
a cheery smile as he called out: ‘Good luck!’ and guided them into the boat.
Moody then held up something and said: ‘Look after this, will you?’ Jessop
reached out and was surprised to receive somebody’s baby. Jessop pressed
the baby to her chest and thought of how little comfort the hard cork surface of
her lifebelt would provide the infant.
236
Earlier, young Third Class passenger Anna Sjöblom had been chased out
of her cabin by rising seawater. After getting on deck, she had attempted to
climb up to where the lifeboats were. An ‘officer of the ship’ helped her up.
Eventually, she made her way through a scene of confusion toward Boat No.
16, which she thought was the ‘next to the last boat launched’, and boarded
it.
237
At about 1:20 a.m., the men working below in the stokeholds and Engine
Room were released from duty. Leading Fireman Thomas Threlfall
remembered getting the order from Junior Second Engineer John Hesketh:
‘We’ve done all we can men, get out now.’238
Trimmer Thomas Dillon was just headed aft from Boiler Room No. 4 to
the Engine Room when he heard a similar order. He recalled that it was given
‘an hour and 40 minutes’ after the collision, or at about 1:20 a.m.: ‘All hands
on deck; put your life preservers on.’239 For him, this order could not have
come at a better time. The reason he was headed aft to the Engine Room was
because he had just seen water beginning to come up from under the stokehold
plates forward in Boiler Room No. 4.
Trimmer George Cavell was in Boiler Room No. 4 when the order to go
up top was given. By the time he abandoned his post, the water that was
coming up through the stokehold plates was over a foot deep.
240 Greaser
Frederick Scott also recalled leaving the Engine Room at ‘twenty past
one’.
241 Scott and the others in the Engine Room were ordered up on deck by
Senior Second Engineer William Farquharson.
242
The entire group of men coming up out of the engineering spaces first
made their way up to E Deck. Moving aft a short distance into an area of the
ship that Scott was wholly unfamiliar with, they were provided with lifebelts
and sent up on deck. Scott was only the fourth person in the group to fetch his
lifebelt, and quickly made his way up the passenger stairs and to the Boat
Deck.
243
At this time, Saloon Steward Ray and First Class passenger Martin
Rothschild started off from C Deck toward the Boat Deck.
244 Ray had come
across Rothschild on C Deck, and had waited for him to be ready to head
back above deck. The two men came up the Grand Staircase to the Boat Deck.
Ray then headed aft toward his assigned lifeboat, No. 9.245
It was about this time that work on loading Boat No. 9 began. It had been
swung out and lowered to the deck for quite some time, but there had not been
any activity at loading it; this was due to the men congregating at the aft port
boats, and many crewmembers heading there to control the crowd. Steward
Ward remembered someone – either Chief Purser McElroy or First Officer
Murdoch – now asking the men by No. 9: ‘Are you all ready?’
Boatswain’s Mate Haines replied: ‘Yes.’
‘Pass in the women and children that are here into that boat,’ the officer
ordered.
Ward noticed that there were several men nearby, and that they ‘fell back,
and there was quite a quantity of women and children helped into the boat’.
246
On the port side, at around 1:20 a.m., Moody ordered No. 16 lowered
away. Just before Moody gave this order, Able Bodied Seaman Frederick
Clench had checked the boat’s falls to make sure they were clear for
lowering. He left before the boat left the deck, however, and made his way
forward to Boat No. 12 to assist there.
247
As the falls played out, the crew realized that there was only one Able
Bodied Seaman and a steward aboard to man the boat, so Master-at-Arms
Joseph Bailey climbed down the falls to take charge. There were
approximately fifty-three persons aboard, out of sixty-five available seats.
248
As No. 16 dropped away from the Boat Deck into the beckoning darkness
below, 24-year-old Sixth Officer Moody was still standing on the sloping
Boat Deck; he would be the only junior officer to perish in the disaster.
At Boat No. 14, Fifth Officer Lowe was just about finished with the
loading process that had been started earlier by Chief Officer Wilde. Among
those who boarded this boat were Second Class passengers Elizabeth
Mellinger and her daughter Madeleine.
249 Fellow Second Class passengers
Esther and Eva Hart also made it into Boat No. 14. Seven-year-old Eva was
placed in the boat first, and her mother followed her. As she boarded, a …
… man who had previously tried to get in, succeeded in doing so, but
was ordered out, and the officer fired his revolver into the air to let
everyone see it was loaded, and shouted out, ‘Stand back! I say, stand
back! The next man who puts his foot in this boat, I will shoot him
down like a dog.’
At this, Eva started crying, begging the officer not to shoot her daddy.
Benjamin Hart had been helping women and children into the boat. He said to
the officer: ‘I’m not going in, but for God’s sake look after my wife and
child.’250
Mess Steward Cecil Fitzpatrick apparently arrived on the deck in time to
help load Boat No. 14. He remembered that while women and children were
boarding, there was a crowd ‘of foreigners hanging around the lifeboat ready
to leap,’ and that one ‘Dago’ even did jump into the boat. The officer in
charge of loading had to threaten all of these people with a revolver to keep
them at bay, Fitzpatrick recalled.251
Daisy Minahan and her brother William, along with his wife Lillian, had
tried to board several lifeboats together. As they traveled across the Boat
Deck, they tripped ‘over huge piles of bread lying on the deck’ – a very
curious thing to find on a ship’s deck in the middle of the night. Finally they
came up on Boat No. 14. She remembered: ‘Officers were yelling and cursing
at men to stand back and let the women get into the boats.’ Daisy and Lillian
were placed safely in the boat. William was unable to board.252
Very shortly after leaving the engineering spaces below, Leading Fireman
Thomas Threlfall also arrived alongside No. 14. He was allowed to board
right before Lowe climbed in and gave the order to lower away.
253
Altogether, approximately forty persons had been loaded into this boat, which
had a capacity for sixty-five.
254 Lowe was so concerned about the load in the
boat that he asked Scarrott: ‘Do you think the boat will stand it?’ Scarrott
replied that it was hanging in the davits all right, and at 1:25 a.m., Lowe gave
the order to lower away.
255
This artistic rendering gives some sense of what the scene surrounding the lowering of Boat No.
14 may have looked like.
Yet the Fifth Officer was still nervous as the boat descended. He felt that
he had ‘overloaded’ her, and thought that the boat and the davits might not
really hold the weight if any other passengers were to jump into it. When No.
14 passed the open A Deck Promenade, there was a rather large crowd of
people, including some from Third Class, who had obvious intentions of
jumping into the lifeboat. Lowe later described them as ‘a lot of Italians’ and
‘Latin people’, terms that were typical of period prejudices. Whatever their
nationality, their intentions seemed apparent. Lowe pulled out his Browning
automatic – with the chaos surrounding the loading of No. 14, he was
probably very glad, in that moment, that he had thought to pick it up – and
fired three shots along the ship’s side to scare them back. The tactic worked.
Boat No. 14’s troubles were not over, however. As the boat neared the
water, one of the falls got tangled, and one end of the craft was suspended
about five feet above the sea. Lowe tried to get the lines clear, but eventually
just released the mechanism and let the boat drop down into the water, freeing
it of the dying ocean liner.
256 Doubtlessly, this sharp drop alarmed the
passengers in the boat.
By this time, Stewards Alfred Theissinger and George Brewster had come
up from below and emerged onto the Boat Deck. When they did, Theissinger
recalled that the water was ‘only thirty feet below’ the deck ‘just aft of the
bridge’. Both men could easily conclude that ‘the vessel was doomed’.
257 He
also noticed that several lifeboats had been put away,
258 and that Captain
Smith was on the Bridge. He noticed large crowds of people ‘running to and
fro’, and began to realize that he was not going to make it away from the ship
up forward. He then moved aft toward the Second Class portions of the Boat
Deck.
259
While all of the excitement on the aft port Boat Deck had been playing out,
Murdoch had been working hard at Boat No. 9, apparently with the assistance
of Chief Purser Hugh McElroy. Boat No. 9 had been swung out earlier in the
evening.
260
 Work there had been delayed when, in response to rumors that men
would be taken off from the aft port side, the deck near No. 9 had grown
‘almost deserted’. However, the preparation and loading of this boat had
eventually resumed; the efforts were intensifying as many of the officers and
crew who had broken off to help calm the disorder at the aft port boats
returned, now that the situation there was under control. Among the men now
working at No. 9 with Murdoch and McElroy were Sixth Officer Moody and
Able Bodied Seaman George McGough. McGough had just finished working
at the aft falls of Boat No. 14 as it was lowered away.
261
When Assistant Second Steward Joseph Wheat arrived alongside No. 9,
Murdoch and a number of stewards and other members of the victualling
department were passing women and children over from the port side to fill
up the boat, since there still weren’t enough passengers on the scene.
262
Steward Frederick Dent Ray was on hand, and pitched in and assisted in the
loading process.
263
Bruce Ismay also assisted at this boat, standing by the falls and helping the
women and children board; however, he helped in a less obtrusive fashion
than he had earlier in the night. As the minutes ticked by, a large group of men
began to stand in a circle around the boat, and as women and children were
passed forward through the crowd, Ismay had to shout ‘make way’ to them.
264
1:30 a.m. – 1:45 a.m.
Just forward of Boat No. 14, Boat No. 12 had also been loading. Its progress
was delayed by about five minutes behind work on No. 14. Able Bodied
Seaman Frederick Clench was busy helping Second Officer Lightoller load
the boat; both men were passing women and children into it while standing on
the gunwales.
Third Class passenger Laura Cribb had been told by her father to get as
close to the boats as she possibly could. Laura had thus left him and pushed
her way into the crowd. She was unable to ‘get into the first two boats [likely
Nos 14 and 16] but was put in the third’, Boat No. 12.265
Meanwhile, Second Class passenger Lillian Bentham had emerged on the
Boat Deck by Boat No. 12. Although she was aware that passengers were
being taken off in the lifeboats, she still ‘did not think the Titanic was going to
sink. It was so big, so magnificent, that I did not think it possible.’ This was in
spite of the fact that even then, the liner was well down at the head. However,
around her there was a scene of ‘alarming confusion’. There were a number of
steerage passengers nearby, she remembered, and the ‘men especially seemed
to be crazed … They wanted to get into the boats and the officers would not
let them.’ She remembered that some men were yelling. An officer hurried her
to the side and dropped her into the boat; although someone caught her in the
boat, she somehow managed to hurt her back. In the midst of the mess, Lillian
remembered hearing gunfire.
266
Another who entered No. 12 was Stewardess Mary Sloan. She had tried
returning to her cabin for some of her jewelry, but realized she did not have
time to go below. One of the bell boys in the crowd recognized her, and
pointing to one of the crowded boats, said: ‘Miss Sloan, that’s your boat!’
The stewardess replied: ‘What do you know, I will wait for another.’
However, she then realized time was running out, and decided that given
another chance at boarding a lifeboat, she’d take it. Then due to ‘a big crush’
behind her, she was pushed over the deck’s edge and into the boat.
267
Second Class passenger Susan Webber also remembered there was ‘a
little panic’ on the deck when she boarded No. 12. She remembered that in the
next boat aft, No. 14, ‘the ship’s officers were trying excitedly’ to get the boat
lowered away, but it was jammed. She heard someone call out, ‘Cut!’ and
watched as No. 14’s falls were severed and the boat splashed down into the
water.
268
At about this time, Chief Officer Wilde arrived back at No. 12. He asked
Able Bodied Seaman Clench how many crewmen were aboard. Clench told
him, ‘Only one, sir.’ Wilde ordered him into the boat since there were no
other seamen available. Clench also remembered that he was ordered to keep
his eye ‘on No. 14 boat, where Mr Lowe, the fifth officer, was, and keep all
together as much as we could.’269
About this time, Second Class passenger Dagmar Bryhl had reached the
deck with her brother Kurt and her fiancé Ingvar Enander. It is uncertain
exactly which boat they reached, but Dagmar remembered that ‘men and
women were kissing each other farewells’. Kurt and Ingvar led her to a boat,
and her fiancé lifted her into it. She recalled:
I seized his hands and wouldn’t let go. ‘Come with me!’ I screamed as
loud as I could, and still holding his hands tight. There was room in
the boat. It was only half-filled, but [an] officer ran forward and
clubed [sic, clubbed] back Ingvar. This officer tore our hands apart
and the lifeboat was let down. As it went down I looked up. There,
leaning over the rail, stood Kurt and Ingvar side by side. I screamed to
them again, but it was no use. They waved their hands and smiled.
That was the last glimpse I had of them.
270
Able Bodied Seaman Poingdestre said that the passengers near him did not
behave well during the loading of No. 12, and that he had held back the men
who were trying to rush the boat to the ‘best of my ability’. He believed that
the men ‘trying to rush’ the lifeboat were all Second and Third Class
passengers. They ‘were on the boat falls’ and in the way, delaying the
departure.
271 By the time they were cleared out of the way and No. 12 finally
left the ship, it was 1:30 a.m.
As the lifeboat started to descend, a single male passenger – who Clench
thought was a Frenchman – jumped down into the boat and hid along the
bottom where no one could get to him.
272 Lillian Bentham saw the man jump
into the lifeboat, but she wasn’t at all sure what his nationality was.
Laura Cribb noticed that when the boat was about halfway down to the
water, ‘one of the pulleys got stuck’, and the passengers were concerned that
they would be ‘overturned’ into the sea. However, the pulley ‘started working
again just in time’.
273
Eventually the boat reached the water safely, with approximately fortytwo seats out of sixty-five occupied.274 As her lifeboat detached from the
falls, Dagmar Bryhl found herself shivering in the freezing cold air. It was
going to be a long, cold night for her.
When the falls were detached, an order was shouted down for the boat to
‘pull away from the ship.’ Lillian Bentham heard this same order, but also
remembered that the officer giving the order added that ‘the Titanic was going
down, and the suction would pull us under.’275 Clench heard this order, but he
had no idea who had shouted it down. Nevertheless he obeyed, and the boat
began to make progress in leaving the Titanic.
276
Elsewhere on deck was Anna Hämäläinen. Anna was a 23-year-old
married woman traveling in Second Class. She was headed from Finland to
Detroit, Michigan, to meet her husband, and was traveling with her infant son
Viljo, then only eight months of age. She was also accompanied by another
Finnish girl, 18-year-old Marta Hiltunen. Her group had not yet reached a
lifeboat. Anna recalled of her experiences:
We seemed to have lots of time, especially at first, when the
seriousness of the accident was not realized by most of the passengers.
I went back to the cabin and put on some warmer clothes and got some
for the baby. Martha was also pretty well dressed. Lots of the people
waited [to dress] so long that they had only the thinnest of garments
when they were put into the boat. Others were fully dressed, for they
had not retired when we struck.
277
Meanwhile, down on A Deck, Jacques and May Futrelle discovered that a
large group of First Class men had congregated. Jacques began conversing
with one of them, and leaned over to light his cigarette. As the glow of the
flame lit their faces, May saw that the other man was Colonel Astor. The men
‘weren’t talking much’, and ‘the only thing anybody said was that we couldn’t
sink. Especially William T. Stead, the British editor, was sure we couldn’t
sink.’
As they walked along the promenade, Jacques and May peered down onto
the Steerage decks at the stern of the ship, and noted that the Third Class
passengers there were ‘quite unexcited’ at the time, and that many were not
wearing lifebelts. Her husband remarked: ‘Those poor devils haven’t a
chance.’ He then added: ‘I’m afraid you’re not giving me a chance for my life
by staying here. I might save myself in the water, but not you, too.’
Hearing this, May acquiesced, bid him farewell, and ‘immediately
determined to leave him and die somewhere else on the boat. I had no hope
then.’ As she headed up to the Boat Deck, Sixth Officer Moody noticed her
and asked: ‘What are you doing below, Mrs Futrelle? All the women are
gone,’ and led her up the steps.
May objected, telling the Sixth Officer: ‘Don’t pull me.’
Moody ignored her protests, however, taking her along to Boat No. 9. She
was subsequently loaded aboard that lifeboat.
278
By that point, Philipp Mock and his sister Emma Schabert had been
rebuffed several times already at the lifeboats in First Class. Earlier, they had
ventured aft to Second Class portions of the Boat Deck. There, they attempted
to board Boat No. 9 together. However, they again met with failure. It was
beginning to look unlikely that they would be allowed to board any of the
lifeboats together.
279
Among the passengers who were being shepherded into Boat No. 9 were
Elizabeth and Mary Lines. The crewmen took Mrs Lines by the arms and
‘swung’ her from the deck into the boat. Mary was impressed by the behavior
of the crew in keeping things organized, passing out blankets and reassuring
everyone, not to mention the band playing and the passengers who stayed
behind on the sloping decks.
280
A pair of passengers who managed to board Boat No. 9 was First Class
passengers Madame Léontine Aubart and her maid Emma Marie Sägesser.
Twenty-four-year-old Aubart was the French mistress of one of Titanic’s most
famous passengers, Benjamin Guggenheim. Reportedly, Guggenheim was on
the deck nearby as the two ladies boarded the lifeboat, and said in German to
Miss Sägesser, ‘We will soon see each other again! It’s just a repair.
Tomorrow the Titanic will go on again.’ Miss Aubart recalled that there was
no commotion at all on the deck at the time, and that they were the last two
women in the area. When she boarded the boat and looked back at the men on
the deck, she was very impressed with their behavior:
Oh, these English! How brave, how calm, how beautiful! I, who am a
patriotic Frenchwoman, say that never can I forget that group of
Englishmen – every one of them a perfect gentleman – calmly puffing
cigarettes and cigars and watching the women and children being
placed in the boats … My last sight of the upper decks was still a
group of those Englishmen, still with cigarettes in mouth, facing death
so bravely that it was all the more terrible.
281
By then, Ellen Toomey, Elizabeth Watt and her daughter Robertha had reached
the port side of the Boat Deck. Upon arriving there, their shipboard friends
had told them that the ‘First Class lifeboats’ had already been launched.
Things were crowded on the port side, and Ellen remembered hearing gunfire
from somewhere as events played out. Thus, the trio moved to the starboard
side.
Olympic’s Boat No. 9 is lowered away during a test in Southampton. The scene at Titanic’s Boat No.
9 would have been remarkably similar.
‘All was hustle and bustle,’ Ellen remembered. When they arrived on the
starboard side of the ship, the women heard a cry of, ‘All women and children
this way,’ and they approached Boat No. 9 as it was loading. Ellen recalled:
‘Before we knew it we found ourselves in a lifeboat and being lowered.’282
Saloon Steward William Ward remembered having some difficulty
loading No. 9. First, ‘a French lady’ – perhaps Madame Aubart? – had ‘fallen
and hurt herself a little’ as she boarded. He realized that from the edge of the
deck it was ‘quite a step down to the bottom of the boat, and in the dark they
could not see where they were stepping.’283 McElroy told two more men to
climb into the boat to assist the ladies in. Yet the excitement in the loading
process was not over yet. Next an ‘old lady made a great fuss’ about
boarding. She let Bath Steward James Widgery and Boatswain’s Mate Albert
Haines take her by the hands, but then she drew away. She ‘absolutely refused
to get into the boat’, ran back to the companionway and ‘forced her way in’.
One of the crewmembers attempted to go after her, but she had already gone
downstairs.
284
Sidney Collett had watched as lifeboats were filled and lowered away.
He remembered that he had somehow gotten himself into the middle of a lot of
foreigners just then. He watched as Boat No. 9 was filling up, and then he
happened to run across his friend from Guernsey; Collett asked him if he was
going to get in, but the man went over to the port side instead. At the time,
there were no more women to board the boat. He recalled:
I asked the officer [Murdoch] if there was any objection to my going in
that boat. He said, ‘No, get in,’ and I was the last one in.
285
Quartermaster Walter Wynn, having helped at other boats, was walking by No.
9 when Sixth Officer Moody instructed him to go to his assigned boat.
Evidently, Moody had stayed to assist at Boat No. 9 after he had escorted May
Futrelle to it. Wynn did not know which boat he was assigned to, so the Sixth
Officer told him to go in No. 9, and to take charge of it. Just as it began
lowering away, Murdoch countermanded Moody’s order, instructing
Boatswain’s Mate Albert Haines to take command of the boat. Wynn
relinquished control to Haines, entered the lifeboat and took up an oar to help
row.
286
Boat No. 9 was lowered away under Murdoch’s direction at about 1:30
a.m., the same time that No. 12 on the port side was lowered away. There
were approximately forty people aboard the boat, which had room for sixtyfive.
287 Mary Lines recalled: ‘The lifeboat went down the side with a terrible
jolt. I thought it was all over then, but we stayed afloat and began to row away
from the ship.’ Percival White and his son Richard – the shipboard
acquaintances who had routed the women from their cabin and had thus saved
their lives – both perished in the sinking.
288
Meanwhile, Sidney Collett recalled:
I think it was the third from the last to go from that side. It was No. 9
and we had to get away fast. Besides other boats coming down there
was danger from the sinking boat.
289
As No. 9 began rowing away from Titanic, Third Class passenger Berk
Pickard was frightened, thinking that it would have been better to stay on the
ship, rather than to sit in the tiny lifeboat in the middle of the ocean. Since he
was ‘sorry at not being on the ship’, he told one of the seamen in the boat that
he would rather have remained aboard. The seaman laughed at him, saying:
‘Do you not see we are sinking?’
290
After Boat No. 9 was safely away, Murdoch moved on to the next boat aft,
No. 11, which was taking on women and children from A Deck. Sixth Officer
Moody had been ordered down to A Deck to oversee the loading of the last
three aft starboard boats from there.
291
After Philipp Mock and his sister Emma Schabert were turned away from
No. 9, the pair had started to move forward to First Class regions of the deck
again; however, they were prevented from doing so, and were instead sent
down to A Deck. There, they found Boat No. 11 was beginning to load. ‘There
seemed to be very few people [present] at the time but in about two minutes
there were quite a large number.’
Standing nearby, Mr Silvey told his wife Alice: ‘Do just as you are told
… We are under orders of the officers of the ship and must obey.’ She
climbed into Boat No. 11, and her husband stayed behind on the sloping deck.
As the officers and crewmen were working at filling the boat, Mrs Silvey
looked at them and noticed that their faces ‘were white as chalk.’292
Steward Littlejohn had helped Able Bodied Seaman Walter Brice and
others swing out No. 11, which was his assigned boat. Then he also had been
ordered down to A Deck. Once he arrived there he began assisting in the
process of filling it with women and children.
293
Apparently, some men in the crowd looked poised to make an attempt at
getting into the boat, and Murdoch shouted out ‘women and children first.’
Following the sinking, Saloon Steward Edward Wheelton, who worked at and
was saved in No. 11, remarked on the First Officer’s performance under
pressure: ‘I would like to say something about the bravery exhibited by the
first officer, Mr Murdoch. He was perfectly cool and very calm.’294
Stewardess Annie Robinson also boarded No. 11. She remembered that as
she did so, she could still hear the music of the ship’s band. She also noticed
that people were getting into the boat in an orderly way.
295
Edith Rosenbaum had stayed for quite some time in the Lounge on A Deck.
Finally, ‘after talking with a bridge officer’, she wandered outside onto the
Boat Deck again. There, she ran into Bruce Ismay, Archibald Butt, and a
crowd of others. When Ismay spotted her, he cried out: ‘You! What the devil
are you doing here? I thought all the women had left the ship!’ Then he walked
over, seized her by the arm, and shoved her ‘none too gently’ toward the
stairs. She descended to A Deck, where she found herself ‘between two lines
of men’. Finally, she found her way aft until she was near Boat No. 11. Two
men picked her up, carried her to the side of the lifeboat, and moved to toss
her head-first into the craft. She recalled:
I screamed as I lurched into the craft, and at the same time lost both my
slippers. I remonstrated against going out in the lifeboat, and some of
the men assisted me back to the deck again, where I recovered my
slippers.
296
Almost immediately afterward, Edith ran across Philipp Mock, who had just
placed his sister into the boat, and who had stayed back on the deck to help
other women in. When Mock and Miss Rosenbaum met, she recalled that he
persuaded her to enter the lifeboat:
‘Miss,’ he said gently, ‘if you’ll just put your foot on my knee and your
arm around my neck, I’ll lift you to the rail, and you can jump in by
yourself.’
The dangling boat seemed so small and far away. ‘All right,’ I said
resolutely.
297
Even as Mock bent down to let her use his knee as a step to get up on the
railing, one of the nearby sailors tore Edith’s toy pig from her grasp and threw
it into the lifeboat, damaging it; apparently the crewman thought it was her
baby. Edith then stepped from Mock’s knee to the railing, and thence into the
lifeboat, landing safely within it.
298
At that point, Mock had a decision to make. He climbed up on the rail and
sat on it, looking down at the sea and the lifeboat his sister was in. The boat
seemed to be quite full, and was about to lower away. Just then, one of the
men in the boat sang out that there was room for one more, and asked if there
were any more women. Mock looked about, and saw ‘only six or seven men
left’ nearby. So someone in the boat called out: ‘Come on, old man!’ Then
Mock allowed himself to be pulled into the boat, and it was lowered away.
299
As the boat was loading, Able Bodied Seaman Brice lowered himself
down the falls, and shipped the rudder. While he was occupied with this task,
the boat began lowering away.
300
It was 1:35 a.m. There were approximately
fifty persons aboard, making it the second most fully loaded boat up to that
point.
301 As the craft reached the water, the crew encountered some problems.
The after-block got jammed, and they were having trouble disconnecting it
from the boat. On top of this, a heavy stream of water from the ship’s
condenser was being discharged just aft of where they were lowering, and the
occupants had some difficulty keeping the boat from being swamped by it.
302
Philipp Mock remembered that the ropes that held the blocks needed to be cut
in order to free them.
303 The boat got away safely, but this discharge would
cause further difficulties during the loading of Boats Nos 13 and No. 15.
As Boat No. 11 rowed off into the night, Philipp Mock took one of the
oars, and everyone ‘rowed for dear life, all feeling that if the Titanic should
go down with them any where near it they would be caught in the suction and
swamped and carried down. The object was to get away from the big boat
with the heavily loaded life boat.’304
Mrs Silvey recalled that a crowd of foreigners was still standing at the
rail above, and that they looked ‘ready to jump into the boats as they were
being lowered’. Looking up as their boat struck the water, she remembered
seeing those men being ‘forced back so they could not jump upon the women
and children’.
305
Around this time, in the First Class Smoking Room aft on A Deck,
Verandah Steward John Stewart looked in to see if there were any other
passengers he could assist there. He found Thomas Andrews standing alone;
he was staring at the painting over the fireplace, ‘Plymouth Harbour’, by
maritime artist Norman Wilkinson. Andrews’ arms were folded across his
chest, his lifebelt cast aside and lying on a table near him. Apparently, the
enormity of the situation had finally sunk in: the Titanic, his crowning
achievement, was about to sink out from under him.
The ship’s designer was so lost in thought that he apparently didn’t realize
when Stewart asked: ‘Aren’t you going to have a try for it, Mr Andrews?’
Stewart said that Andrews never answered or moved, ‘just like one stunned’.
Receiving no response, the steward turned and left. Andrews stayed, still
staring into nothing. Shortly after he sighted Andrews, Stewart headed to the
remaining aft starboard boats which were loading from A Deck, to see if he
could be of assistance there.
Author Shan Bullock speculated at what thoughts might have crossed
Andrews’ mind as he stood there alone, reflecting on the current situation:
What did he see as he stood there, alone, rapt? We who know the man
… can believe that before him was home and all the loved ones there,
wife and child, father and mother, brothers and sister, relatives,
friends … and as background to all that, swift realization of the awful
tragedy ending his life, ending his ship.306
Below deck was Sahid Nackid, a 20-year-old Third Class passenger. He was
traveling with his 19-year-old wife Waika ‘Mary’ Nackid, and their baby
daughter Maria. The family was from Lebanon, and they were traveling to
Waterbury, Connecticut. There, they planned to meet up with Sahid’s mother,
Josephine. Somehow, the family had managed to sleep through the collision,
and much of the subsequent excitement. The first they were informed of
trouble was that ‘one of the officers came running thru the steerage’ and told
them to go on deck. Upon arriving there, they ‘could see by the slope of the
floor that the boat was going down’. Without bothering to dress, they rushed
up on deck. They eventually managed to make their way up to the Boat Deck,
and could see that ‘the bow of the boat was way down in the water and the
stern was sticking up at a slant.’ The family moved forward along the Boat
Deck.
307
Doctor Washington Dodge had watched events play out on the starboard
side Boat Deck for about, in his rough estimation, ‘half or three-quarters of an
hour’ from the time his wife and son left in Boat No. 5. He saw one boat after
another fill and lower away, but it didn’t seem like the right time to climb
aboard one himself. He remembered that at ‘no time were there many people
on the starboard side’ of the Boat Deck, and although he suspected that more
were on the port side, he couldn’t tell for sure. This was because, as he
recalled:
We were in semi-darkness on the boat deck, and owing to the immense
length and breadth of the vessel, and the fact that between the port and
starboard side of the boat deck, there were officers’ cabins,
staterooms for passengers, a gymnasium, and innumerable immense
ventilators, it would have been impossible, even in daylight, to have
obtained a view of but a limited portion of this boat deck. We only
knew what was going on about us within a radius of possibly forty
feet.
Eventually, Dodge drifted aft along the Boat Deck toward Boats Nos 13 and
15, into what was ordinarily Second Class territory.
308
On the aft starboard end of the Boat Deck, Assistant Saloon Steward
Walter Nichols stood with a group of crewmembers, awaiting orders.
Nichols’ assigned boat was No. 15. He noted that the officer on the scene
there had a revolver in his hand, but was calm, and was giving his orders
quietly. Nichols remarked that ‘we didn’t know even then that anything was
seriously the matter.’309
The officer in charge was Murdoch. After finishing at No. 11, the First
Officer made his way to Boats Nos 13 and 15. Washington Dodge
remembered that ‘Boats Nos 13 and 15 were swung from the davits at about
the same moment. I heard the officer in charge of No. 13 [Murdoch] say,
“We’ll lower this boat to deck ‘A’.” Observing a group of possibly fifty or
sixty about boat 15, a small proportion of which number were women, I
descended by means of a stairway close at hand to the deck below,’ the
Promenade Deck.
310
Meanwhile, Bathroom Steward Samuel Rule arrived at No. 15, his
assigned boat, and heard the First Officer give the order to put in the plug, as
well as to ship the tiller and rudder. Next, Murdoch told the crewmen on the
scene for ‘some of you get into the boat.’ About six men boarded, among them
Nichols, John Stewart, and Trimmer George Cavell. Murdoch said ‘that will
do, lower away to A Deck and receive any women and children there.’311 As
No. 15 descended to the next deck, Nichols heard the Titanic’s band
playing.
312
By this time, August Wennerström, Gunnar Tenglin, and the other Third
Class passengers in their group had managed to reach the Boat Deck. They
were slowly walking back and forth to keep warm. After helping ‘a couple of
Swedish girls’ into one of the aft boats, Wennerström stood there, smoking a
cigar and watching with ‘eyes wide open’ everything going on around them as
the last boats left. Gunnar Tenglin was no longer with him, as he had
apparently already boarded one of the aft boats. Wennerström found that he
did not feel any sorrow or fear; instead, he felt detached, almost as if they
were part of the audience of a ‘wonderful dramatic play’.
313
Wennerström then returned below deck to the Third Class quarters. While
there, he ran into his friend Johan Lundahl, also from Sweden. Lundahl said,
‘Goodbye friends. I am too old to fight the Atlantic’s wave,’ and then went to
the Third Class Smoking Room, sitting down on a chair and ‘awaiting his last
call’. Wennerström also noticed seeing an English lady in the Smoking Room
take her child on her knee, sit down at the piano, and start playing. He was
under the impression that she would keep playing ‘until the Atlantic’s grave
called them both’.
314
Wennerström and ‘a couple girls’ who were with him still did not have
lifebelts, and began searching for some, ‘knowing now that they surely would
be needed’. Eventually, their search led them into one of the First Class suites.
There were ‘magnificent suits, clothing thrown all over, on the table were
jewels and diamonds, and on other tables champagne …’ In the second room
of this suite, August found a lifebelt for himself, just sitting there right next to
a pitcher of water. The thought occurred to him that under ordinary
circumstances, it would be instinctive to try saving all the wealth before them;
however, since the ship was sinking, ‘money and wealth are death [sic, dead]
things and of no value to you, when you are face-to-face with death – you
could not here buy you [sic, your] life or saving.’315
Eugene Daly, Maggie Daly, and Bertha Mulvihill had reached the Boat
Deck after Boat Nos 13 and 15 had been lowered to the Promenade. They had
been through quite an ordeal in getting up on deck. After Maggie had reported
that her cabin was flooded out, Eugene had led the group back down to E
Deck, and immediately aft along the E Deck passageway known as ‘Scotland
Road.’ Arriving in the stern, he had asked a man for a lifebelt, since Maggie
did not have one. Eugene’s lifebelt was concealed by his heavy coat, and the
man must have thought he was trying to take it for himself. The two began
scuffling, but the man relented and gave the lifebelt to Maggie once he
realized they wanted it for her.
316 Eugene’s chivalrous acts did not end there.
He took the time to wake up a number of women who had not yet come out of
their cabins. One of these women was fellow Third Class passenger Katie
Gilnagh, who was still asleep. She recalled ‘the bagpipe player’ from the
steerage party earlier that night coming into her cabin and saying ‘get up,
something was wrong with the ship’.
317
Before reaching the upper decks, the group had reached the aft Well Deck,
where an expanding crowd of Third Class passengers was gathering. The
passengers were kept waiting on the aft Well Decks until later in the sinking
and were not allowed to proceed up to the boats, a fact which all three would
bitterly complain about later. Eugene said ‘we were all held down in steerage
which seemed to be a lifetime.’ Bertha Mulvihill complained that they had
been ‘held below deck for the longest time’, and that ‘every time we went up
a stair they were locked.’318
 Eventually, the crew unlocked the low lying gates
at the top of the stairways leading up from the Well Deck to B Deck, and
began letting passengers through. Eugene pushed the two girls through the
crowds and up the stairs.
The Rice family, Third Class passengers.
After arriving on the Boat Deck, they found ‘there were no boats going
off’ on the aft starboard side. Bertha Mulvihill saw Margaret Rice and her
five children quietly standing off to the side. She was holding her youngest
child, Eugene, in her arms, while the other children clung to her skirt. That
was the last time any of them saw the Rice family alive, as all six of them
perished. After being told a boat was being loaded on A Deck, Eugene wasted
no time in pushing through the crowd, leading Maggie and Bertha below.
319
Elizabeth Dowdell, Virginia Emanuel and Amy Stanley had also been part
of the crowd on the Well Deck which now moved toward Boats Nos 13 and
15. As they did so, Elizabeth recalled that the ‘Titanic began to list
alarmingly’. Separated in the crush from Amy, Elizabeth and Virginia moved
toward Boat No. 13, virtually borne along by the forward momentum of the
crowd.320
When Boat No. 15 reached A Deck, Titanic was listing ‘slightly’ to port.
The list was so subtle at that stage that it was really only obvious to the
crewmen once they were standing in the lifeboat. It had not been particularly
noticeable during the loading and lowering of boats that had left prior to that
point.
321 Eugene Daly pushed Maggie Daly and Bertha Mulvihill towards No.
15, and helped them aboard. Several other men on the scene began pushing
towards the boat, and in a moment of weakness, Eugene joined them and
climbed aboard. This would not have been an issue, except that there were
still women and children waiting for a place in the boat. Unlike the officers on
the port side of the ship, Murdoch others officers on the starboard side were
typically letting men aboard lifeboats, but only after there were no more
women and children handy. Describing the events, Daly said the boat ‘was
being filled with women. Maggie and Bertha got in, and I got in. The officer
called on me to go back, but I got in. Life was sweet to me and I wanted to
save myself. They told me to get out but I didn’t stir. Then they got hold of me
and pulled me out’.
322 Eugene only attempted to save himself after ensuring
that his pre-voyage vow to look after and keep Bertha Mulvihill and his
cousin Maggie safe during the voyage was not broken. Both later credited him
with saving their lives, and Maggie went so far as to say: ‘I never would have
been saved but for Eugene. He fought very hard for our lives.’323
Bathroom Steward Samuel Rule described these events from a different
perspective. He said that when No. 15 came down to A Deck, there was a bit
of a rush, and ‘several of the foreign passenger men rushed for the boat.’ On
the Boat Deck, First Officer Murdoch shouted: ‘Stand back! Women first!’
The rush, minor compared to what had transpired earlier at No. 14, abated.
Then Rule and the other crewmembers proceeded to take in all the women and
children who were there.
324 Trimmer Cavell believed that ‘most’ of the
passengers in No. 15 were Irish.
325
Nearby, Dr Washington Dodge arrived on the Promenade Deck just as
Boat No. 13 was drawing level with it. He and several others helped a
number of women into the boat. Saloon Steward Alexander Littlejohn and
other crewmembers remembered helping about ‘35 women and children’ into
the same lifeboat.
326
Saloon Steward Frederick Dent Ray was also helping to fill the lifeboat
with women and children. He had previously seen his assigned lifeboat, No.
9, loaded with women and children, and did not leave with it even though he
thought that the situation was serious. Next, the steward had assisted in the
loading of Boat No. 11, and also saw that boat leave without making an
attempt to get in.
At Boat No. 13, Ray caught sight of Dr Dodge, but did not see his wife
and son. Ray knew the Dodge family, as he served them on the Olympic during
their east-bound passage to Europe; it was he who had helped convinced them
to take return passage on the Titanic. The steward approached Dodge, and
asked where his family was. Dodge replied that they had gone away in one of
the boats. At that point, the doctor had backed away from the railing. Ray
decided to do what he could to save the doctor. ‘You had better get in here,
then,’ he called out and, getting behind him, he pushed Dodge into the boat.
Then Ray followed Dodge into the lifeboat, although Dodge didn’t see his
table steward board.
Dodge might have been distracted because, just then, Ray was involved in
a rather bizarre situation. A ‘rather big woman’ had come along, and Ray
found himself and a few others helping her into the lifeboat. Yet, all the while,
she was ‘crying’ and saying: ‘Don’t put me in the boat; I don’t want to go in
the boat; I have never been in an open boat in my life. Don’t let me stay in.’
Ray told her: ‘You have got to go, and you may as well keep quiet.’327
Third Class passenger Elizabeth Dowdell remembered of the scene
around Boats Nos 13 and 15:
It was pitiful watching the men who had to remain in absolute silence
on deck, leaving their wives, sweethearts, sisters and children to face
and battle with the danger without their aid. We, however, noticed in
the darkness of the night – for there wasn’t any moonlight – boats
slipping quietly away, followed by other boats which were lowered.
Elizabeth and Virginia Emanuel were safely loaded into Boat No. 13, which
Elizabeth thought was very heavily loaded.328
Second Class passenger Mary Hewlett had remained on the deck for quite
some time. She never returned to her cabin to dress, but when she finally tore
herself away from the scene to attempt doing so, she was grabbed and
‘literally thrown’ into Boat No. 13. She protested about being placed in the
boat, and was then informed that ‘the boat had been severely damaged by an
iceberg’. Mary replied that she ‘would rather stay on the ship’, still believing
– as she thought that everyone else did – that the ‘monster of the sea was
unsinkable’. She didn’t see any women left on the deck behind her when she
boarded the boat.
329
Around this time, Leading Fireman Frederick Barrett arrived at the
Promenade Deck and ‘took a walk along the deck’, headed aft. His clothes
soaked, the chill of the night air must have been unpleasant to say the least.
Barrett saw that Boats Nos 13 and 15 were loading. No. 13 was very nearly
full, and he did not see an officer at that moment. Barrett knew that the ship
was in grave danger, so he simply decided to board the nearly-full lifeboat.
He remembered that about three people got into the boat after him.
330
Saloon Steward Ray might have been surprised when a small child rolled
into a blanket was tossed to him in the lifeboat. Fortunately, Ray caught the
bundle, and then the woman who had brought the child climbed in after it.
331
The call went out for more women, but none were forthcoming. Sixth
Officer Moody came along, and ordered Saloon Steward Littlejohn and
another crewman to get in to help row the boat.
332
Second Class passenger Lawrence Beesley was above on the starboard
Boat Deck. He remembered:
Looking forward and downward, we could see several of the boats
now in the water, moving slowly one by one from the side, without
confusion or noise, and stealing away in the darkness which
swallowed them in turn as the crew bent to the oars. An officer – I
think First Officer Murdock [sic] – came striding along the deck, clad
in a long coat, from his manner and face evidently in great agitation,
but determined and resolute; he looked over the side and shouted to
the boats being lowered: ‘Lower away, and when afloat, row around
to the gangway and wait for orders.’ ‘Aye, aye, sir,’ was the reply; and
the officer passed by and went across the ship to the port side.
Almost immediately after this, I heard a cry from below of, ‘Any
more ladies?’ and looking over the edge of the deck, saw boat 13
swinging level with the rail of B deck [sic, A Deck], with the crew,
some stokers, a few men passengers and the rest ladies, – the latter
being about half the total number; the boat was almost full and just
about to be lowered. The call for ladies was repeated twice again, but
apparently there were none to be found. Just then one of the crew
looked up and saw me looking over. ‘Any more ladies on your deck?’
he said. ‘No,’ I replied. ‘Then you had better jump’. I sat on the edge
of the deck with my feet over, threw the dressing-gown (which I had
carried on my arm all of the time) into the boat, dropped, and fell in
the boat near the stern.
As I picked myself up, I heard a shout: ‘Wait a moment, here are
two more ladies,’ and they were pushed hurriedly over the side and
tumbled into the boat, one into the middle and one next to me in the
stern …
… As they tumbled in, the crew shouted, ‘Lower away’; but before
the order was obeyed, a man with his wife and baby came quickly to
the side: the baby was handed to the lady in the stern, the mother got in
near the middle and the father at the last moment dropped in as the
boat began its journey down to the sea many feet below.
333
Paul Mauge, Kitchen Clerk of the à la carte Restaurant, had made his way to
the Boat Deck, along with Restaurant Chef Pierre Rousseau. They were
fortunate to have made it … earlier, when they and many of the other
Restaurant employees tried to leave their E Deck quarters off ‘Scotland
Road’, they had been blocked from heading aft into Second Class by a number
of stewards in the corridor. Mauge and Rousseau, who had earlier been
forward looking for evidence of the collision, were fully dressed, and so they
happened to look like passengers. Based on their clothing, Mauge was able to
convince the stewards to let them pass, and they headed up on deck. The rest
of the Restaurant staff was not allowed to proceed.334
When they got to the Boat Deck, Mauge saw Captain Smith attempting to
convince a female passenger to enter a lifeboat. Mauge also saw at least one
boat in the water. As No. 13 was on its way down the side of the ship, Mauge
jumped, just as Beesley did. The lifeboat must have been at the level of A
Deck, and someone still on the ship tried to pull Mauge off, back onto Titanic.
Somehow, Mauge was able to remain in the boat, possibly due to its continued
descent toward the water.
Mauge then shouted up to Rousseau several times that he should jump in.
However, possibly due to his weight – Mauge said Rousseau was ‘too fat’ –
Rousseau would not take the same leap Mauge had. No. 13 continued to
lower, Rousseau was left on deck, and never managed to find his way into
another lifeboat.
335
Frederick Barrett remembered that someone called down from the Boat
Deck, ‘Let no more in that boat, the falls will break.’336 Whoever gave that
order, it is clear that when Murdoch had passed Beesley on his way to the
port side, the First Officer felt that the situation was well under control.
However with Murdoch’s departure, and Moody still on A Deck, this left no
officer to oversee the crewmen working the davits on the Boat Deck as Boat
No. 13, and then No. 15, lowered away. Murdoch probably felt that this was a
risk worth taking, as there was much work left to be done elsewhere on the
ship, and precious little time to do it. The order to ‘lower away’ Boat No. 13
was given at 1:40 a.m.
Once the family with the baby had boarded, there were approximately
fifty-five persons aboard.337 Saloon Steward Ray recalled that ‘three or four’
men were left on the deck, and as No. 13 dropped away they headed aft to No.
15.338
Murdoch and Moody were loading the last of the aft starboard boats more
heavily than previous boats which had been sent away. Boat No. 13 was
nearing its capacity load, but was still shy of full by ten spaces. Boat No. 15
would end up loaded beyond its capacity as it was lowered away. The reason
these boats were being loaded more fully was obvious: the ship was
significantly down by the head … the officers knew time was growing short
… chances of a rescue ship arriving in time to render assistance had dwindled
to nearly nothing. They had to save as many as possible, and time and boats
were running out fast.
Eugene Daly stopped a female passenger as she about to board No. 15; he
handed her his rosary beads, two gold sovereigns he had in his pocket, and his
pocket watch. He begged her to hold on to them for him, said that he would
seek her out if he survived, and requested that she send them to his family if he
did not make it.
339 No. 15 finished loading, and began lowering away ‘thirty
seconds’ after No. 13.340 Overloaded, there were approximately sixty-eight
persons aboard.341 The port list was more noticeable as this boat lowered
away, as the gunwale was ‘pretty well up against’ Titanic’s hull. However,
this did not interfere with the lowering.
342 As the boat began its descent, a
man jumped down from the Boat Deck, landing on Bertha Mulvihill, knocking
the wind out of her, and breaking several ribs. This further aggravated the
injuries to her back that she had received falling down several stairs earlier in
the night.
343
As No. 13 neared the water, it encountered the condenser discharge which
had given Boat No. 11 so much difficulty just a few minutes earlier. Elizabeth
Dowdell recalled:
We were but ten feet above the water when we noticed immediately
below our boat was the exhaust of the condensers. Just above the
water line a huge stream of water came rushing from the ship’s side.
We became anxious, for we feared we would be swamped by the rush
of water when we touched the level of the sea.
344
Saloon Steward Ray recalled that …
… two or three of us noticed a very large discharge of water coming
from the ship’s side, which I thought was the pumps working [sic].
The hole was about 2 feet wide and about a foot deep, a solid mass of
water coming out from the hole. I realized that if the boat was lowered
down straight away the boat would be swamped and we should all be
thrown into the water. We shouted for the boat to be stopped from
being lowered, and they responded promptly and stopped lowering the
boat.
We got oars and pushed it off from the side of the ship. It seemed
impossible to lower the boat without being swamped; we pushed it out
from the side of the ship and the next I knew we were in the water free
from this discharge …345
No. 13’s troubles were not over, however. The condenser discharge pushed
the boat aft until its falls were pulled taut. When it stopped, No. 13 sat
directly beneath Boat No. 15, which was by that point already lowering. Then
a new problem presented itself: with the pin mechanism used to release the
falls under tension, it failed to operate, and the boat was stuck there. Those in
Boat No. 13 began to panic as they realized that Boat No. 15 was being
lowered directly on top of them. They shouted to those in control of the falls
to halt lowering the boat, but their cries fell on deaf ears, and the other boat
kept descending.
The occupants of No. 15 heard their shouts. Once they looked down and
realized what was happening, they also began shouting up to the
crewmembers on the deck to stop lowering, but to no avail. Sixth Officer
Moody’s presence on A Deck, combined with First Officer Murdoch’s
departure to the port side, had left a strange vacuum of authority on the Boat
Deck in the wrong place at the wrong time. This may well explain why the
warnings from both boats went unheeded by the crewmembers at the falls, and
why no one on deck realized what was happening.
In No. 13, the bottom of No. 15 was now so close that those in the boat
began reaching up to touch it, trying to push themselves free. A ‘sailor’ cut the
forward set of falls free. Leading Fireman Barrett leapt up and shoved two
oars over the bow of the boat, trying to push it away from the Titanic’s side.
He yelled at the others in the boat, ‘Let go the after fall’. However, nobody
realized what he was doing, so Barrett climbed over the passengers in the
boat and began hacking at the aft falls with a knife, shouting ‘One! Two!’ as he
cut them. No. 13 swung clear of No. 15 just as she dropped into the ocean in
the space they had just occupied.346
 Disaster had been narrowly averted.
By now, Steward Alfred Theissinger had moved aft to the Second Class
portion of the deck, and he eventually made his way toward Boat No. 15. He
‘aided in getting her davits swung over the side of the ship, but an officer
said: “There is no chance for you. I am sorry.” ’ Theissinger then bumped into
Storekeeper Cyril Ricks, and the two men stood talking for some time; they
were later joined by Steward Sidney Siebert.
347
Third Class passengers Percival and Florence Thorneycroft had followed
their orders, donning their lifebelts and proceeding to ‘the second deck’,
apparently either a reference to the Promenade Deck, or to the Second Class
portions of the Boat Deck. Exactly what lifeboat they approached is not
entirely certain. However, the scene was far from orderly. Florence recalled
that after she boarded the lifeboat in question, the ‘men started to follow, but
were ordered back in harsh terms, being told that unless they went back they
would be shot’. She believed that ‘the men would all be cared for later’. At
the time, ‘women … were being thrown into the lifeboat as if they were
bundles, and if they landed on their feet all right.’ Their boat was quickly
lowered away and rowed off into the night.
348
1:45 a.m. – 2:00 a.m.
Back on the port side, Murdoch had arrived at Boat No. 10, the last of the aft
boats. It was still sitting in the chocks on the Boat Deck. Under Murdoch’s
watchful eye, progress at No. 10 was made quickly. He ordered Able Bodied
Seamen Evans and Buley to swing the boat out and lower it level with the
deck.
349
As Murdoch proceeded with this task, on the Bridge, Fourth Officer
Boxhall and Quartermasters Rowe and Bright were still working with the
Morse key and the rockets. Their attempts to signal the ship that they could so
plainly see on the horizon, but which was not answering their calls for help,
were growing increasingly desperate.
350
Just aft of the port Bridge wing, Chief Officer Wilde had begun loading
Emergency Boat No. 2. A whole group of male crewmembers had managed to
climb into the boat behind Wilde’s back, nearly filling it up, as the Chief
Officer was rounding up women and children to put into it. Captain Smith
noticed this, and asked a crewmember for his megaphone. When it was
handed to him, Smith called out: ‘How many of the crew are in that boat? Get
out of there, every man of you.’ The men crawled out of the boat, and the
women and children were loaded aboard.351
Mahala Douglas was among those shepherded into Boat No. 2. Before
boarding, she asked her husband to join her, but he replied: ‘No, I must be a
gentleman,’ and turned his face away from her. Still trying to think of
something that would help his plight, she suggested: ‘Try and get off with Mr
Moore and Major Butt. They will surely make it.’ Clarence Moore, Major
Butt, and Edgar Meyer – whose wife had already left in Boat No. 6 – were all
standing nearby at the time. Mrs Douglas also caught a glimpse of Arthur
Ryerson’s face in the crowd, as well. Then the time arrived, and she boarded
the lifeboat. As she entered, she noticed that there were already quite a
number of people aboard the craft.
352
Captain Smith stood between the Wheelhouse door and No. 2 lifeboat,
keeping a close eye on the remainder of the loading process. When the loading
was nearly finished and the officers were just about to lower it away, Smith
turned and saw Fourth Officer Boxhall standing on the Bridge. He ordered
Boxhall to ‘get into that boat and go away’, as the Fourth Officer recalled.
Boxhall complied, got in and took charge. It was about 1:45 a.m. As the boat
lowered away, he took note of the fact that there was only one other regular
boat – No. 4 – visible on the port side, and that Collapsible D was still sitting
on the deck. Remarkably, No. 2 left with just seventeen of its forty seats
occupied.353 Boxhall only had one sailor with him, Able Bodied Seaman
Frank Osman.
Once Boat No. 2 was afloat, Boxhall worked to get the passengers
organized and the oars in the water. This task was much more difficult than he
might have expected, because Osman was the only crewmember aboard who
was proficient at handling an oar, and who understood boat orders. The
Fourth Officer had great difficulty steering the boat, since he was forced to
simultaneously pull the stroke oar. Finally reaching a semblance of
organization, they rowed about 100 feet out from the ship and then lay on their
oars.
Back on the ship, First Class Passenger Peter Daly had been assisting the
crew in loading the boats. He watched as Captain Smith looked over the port
side of the ship at some of the lifeboats already in the water and shouted:
‘Bring those boats back, they are only half filled!’
354
In Boat No. 2, Boxhall
heard a whistle from the Boat Deck, followed by Captain Smith calling out
through a megaphone for some of the boats to come back to the ship. Smith
sang out to Boxhall to ‘Come round to the starboard side’ to the gangway
doors. The Fourth Officer heeded the order immediately, and began rowing aft
towards Titanic’s stern.
355
Perched at the tiller of Boat No. 6, Quartermaster Hichens, who had been
‘swearing a great deal, and was very disagreeable’, reacted quite differently
to Captain Smith’s orders. Hearing the whistle, Hichens ordered everyone to
stop rowing, so that he could hear the directions being shouted to them.
Hichens then refused to comply with the orders, saying: ‘No, we are not going
back to the boat. It is our lives now, not theirs.’ He insisted upon their rowing
farther away. This did not sit well with the women in the boat, many of whom
had left their husbands behind on the sinking ship. Understandably, they
protested, but it led to nothing, as everyone felt powerless. One passenger
described Hichens as ‘cowardly and almost crazy with fear’ at the time.
Major Peuchen, already having had the one confrontation with Hichens,
contemplated taking the tiller from him by force, but there were many
passengers in between him and the Quartermaster, and ultimately he decided
that he was not in a position to do anything.
356
Back on the aft end of Titanic’s Boat Deck, Evans and Buley had swung
out and lowered No. 10 until it was level with the deck. The port list had
increased from a barely noticeable tilt, to approximately 10°. This
complicated the loading of passengers into No. 10, as it was causing the boat
to swing away from the Titanic’s hull somewhere between ‘two feet and a
half’ and ‘a yard and a half’.
357 After asking if he was an Able Bodied
Seaman, Murdoch told Buley to ‘jump in and see if you can find another
seaman to give you a hand.’ Buley found Evans and they both got in the
boat.
358 Chief Baker Joughin stood on the Boat Deck, and was ‘getting the
children and chucking them into the boat’.
359 Evans stood in the bow of the
boat and caught the children, also helping the women aboard as Murdoch
made them leap across the gap.360
As he assisted, Joughin noted that all of the passengers he could see were
from Third Class. Once No. 10 was about half-full, the crewmembers began
having difficulty finding women who were willing to board the boat. Even at
this late stage, many of them preferred the Titanic’s sloping decks to a small
boat floating in the ocean. Many others had already abandoned the aft part of
the deck; this was because there were still a few boats left forward, and since
No. 10 hadn’t even been swung out, much less loaded, until Murdoch arrived.
Because of this, Joughin and three or four other crewmembers went down to
A Deck, forcibly brought up women and children, and threw them across the
gap into the boat.
361
A seaman came running over to Imanita Shelley and her mother, who were
standing near Boat No. 10, and said: ‘Young lady, for God’s sake get into this
lifeboat they are getting ready to launch; it is the last one on board; all the rest
are launched and you must not take any chances.’ Isidor and Ida Straus were
nearby, and seeing Imanita, they helped her to the edge of the deck.
Simultaneously a seaman took hold of her mother, literally throwing her
across the gap into the boat, where a crewmember caught her. Imanita was
told to jump, so she quickly bade the Strauses farewell, before they helped her
leap across the gap, and landed among the other passengers in the boat.
Looking up, Imanita saw Mrs Straus smiling and waving on deck, and was
impressed at how serene and quiet she was amid all the turmoil, ‘not trying to
get away and doing all to help the rest of us escape in comfort’.
362
Second Class passenger Nora Keane was also among those who boarded
Boat No. 10. Just before she climbed in, she recalled seeing ‘a foreigner of
some kind’ – others called him ‘a crazed Italian’ – run and jump into No. 10.
She noticed that no one seemed to notice his action. Lutie Parish did, however
… as this man jumped into the boat, he landed directly on top of Lutie,
severely bruising her right side and leg, and ‘crushing her foot so that it was
absolutely helpless’.
363
On a more positive note, Nora Keane said that the women were shown
‘every courtesy’ by the crew as they were lowered into the boats. The officers
‘had perfect control of everything. There was some excitement amongst some
of the people, but not what you would expect under the circumstances.
Officers called out just who were to go in the boats.’
While she was waiting for her turn to board, she heard the officers
calling: ‘All men hold back. Give the women preference. And the men did.’ In
the process of boarding, Nora said that she and some of the other ladies
trampled over the man who had jumped into the bottom of the boat; at the time
they didn’t know they were stepping on him, but he later proved to be both
uninjured and of great use in rowing their lifeboat. She remembered of the
scene:
First an officer and two men were put in it. The officer was then
ordered out and two men, both green hands, were put in. Later one of
these was ordered out. This left one man, a stoker, whom we believed
was drunk.
‘What will we do if you leave us?’ we asked the officer when he
left the boat.
‘I’ll return,’ he answered; but he never came back.
That stoker didn’t care whether our boat kept right or not, and if it
had not been for the foreigner we tramped on we would have been in a
bad way.
364
Trimmer Thomas Dillon had been among those released from the engineering
spaces at about 1:20 a.m. He had eventually reached the aft Well Deck, and
went to the Poop, where he noticed crewmen on the upper decks were
‘chasing the women on to the port side’ so that they could board a lifeboat
there. Apparently, there were not enough women at hand, however; Dillon
heard the crewmen sing out that this was ‘the last boat’, and they also called
down toward Dillon: ‘Any more women there?’ Dillon saw some ladies on
the Well Deck, so he and some others ‘chased them up the ladder.’ However,
the men opted to remain on the Well Deck, and then moved aft to the Poop
Deck.
While they were on the Poop, Dillon heard someone in the area say: ‘Go
to the first cabin barroom.’ Dillon and several other men went there, and
found that free whiskey was being served out by a steward.
‘Go on, lads,’ the steward exhorted; ‘drink up. She is going down.’
Dillon and his companions obliged, and Dillon remembered: ‘We got our
share.’ When they were finished, Dillon wanted to go to a First Class cabin,
close it up, and try to forget about the approach of the inevitable end, but
another fireman in their group convinced him not to. Instead, the group
returned to the Poop Deck. One man had some cigarette paper, and another
had some tobacco – just enough to make a single cigarette, which was passed
around amongst the group of fifteen.
365
While No. 10 was loading, a woman in a black dress caught her heel on
the lip of the deck as she was jumping, causing her to fall in between the boat
and the hull of the ship. Thankfully, somebody on A Deck caught her before
she fell into the ocean, and pulled her back aboard the ship. She came back up
to the Boat Deck and boarded No. 10 without further incident.
366 The boat
was lowered away at around 1:50 a.m. Nora Keane thought that it was ‘the
fourth or fifth boat that left’.
367
No. 10 reached the water with approximately fifty-seven persons
aboard.368 When the boat touched down, Able Bodied Seaman Evans had
difficulty unhooking the falls because he couldn’t get to the tripper underneath
the thwart and had to release them by hand. As he did, someone shouted:
‘Hurry up, the boilers may explode at any moment.’369
While Boat No. 10 was being loaded, Lightoller and the crewmen at the
forward end of the ship had finally begun to make progress with Boat No. 4.
The A Deck Promenade windows had finally been opened, and the Second
Officer ordered the women and children nearby back down there. When
Second Steward George Dodd relayed Lightoller’s order to go below, First
Class passenger Marian Thayer, frustrated, shouted out: ‘Tell us where to go
and we will follow. You ordered us up here and now you are taking us back.’
Dodd’s response was: ‘Follow me.’370
Soon, Lightoller and other crewmen were filling No. 4 from A Deck by
‘getting the women out through the windows’.
371 Lightoller’s earlier decision
to tie No. 4 to the coaling wire running along A Deck had paid off. The boat
swung away from the side of the ship due to the port list, but not nearly as
much as No. 10 had. Wooden deck chairs were used to make it easier for the
passengers to step up to the windows and out into the boat, but even with this
makeshift provision, some had to be tossed across. Lightoller stood at the
window with one foot in No. 4, and one on the A Deck rail to assist the
passengers aboard.
This photograph, merged from two photographs of the Olympic, shows how Titanic’s forward port
side Promenade would have appeared. The loading of Boat No. 4 took place through the windows
just forward of the expansion joint.
As the women and children were being passed into the boat, First Class
passenger Emily Ryerson and her son John stepped toward the window.
Lightoller saw this and attempted to prevent John from boarding, saying, ‘That
boy can’t go.’ Arthur Ryerson asserted himself saying, ‘Of course, that boy
goes with his mother; he is only thirteen.’ Lightoller relented, but said: ‘No
more boys.’ Emily turned and kissed her husband farewell, and then was
‘flung’ into the boat.
372
First Class passengers Colonel John Jacob Astor and Colonel Archibald
Gracie helped Astor’s pregnant wife Madeleine aboard. Gracie lifted the
young bride over the rail and through the window. Astor took her left arm as
they passed her to Lightoller, who seated her in the boat. Astor also ensured
that Madeleine’s maid Rosalie Bidois made it into the boat. He asked for
permission to board, to protect his wife in light of her ‘delicate condition’,
but the Second Officer would make no exceptions: ‘No, sir, no men are
allowed in these boats until women are loaded first.’ Astor did not protest.
He simply kissed his wife goodbye, telling her that he would follow in
another boat. Before stepping back, Astor asked Lightoller what the number of
the boat was, so that he could find his wife later if he survived. Lightoller told
him it was No. 4. He did not recognize Astor at the time, and assumed that he
had asked for the number in order to file a complaint about him later.
373
It seems that 11-year-old Master Elias Nicola-Yarred and his 14-year-old
sister Jamilia also made it into Boat No. 4. The two children were traveling
without either of their parents. The fact that they had managed to find their
way up to one of the last lifeboats was truly remarkable, but their fate was not
yet certain … they were still standing there on the deck, ‘frightened beyond
belief, crying and looking for help’. Elias recalled watching ‘a middle-aged
gentleman,’ help his ‘very young, pregnant wife … into the lifeboat’, and kiss
her good-bye. Then the man turned to help the next person into the boat. Elias
just happened to be standing right there, and when the gentleman ‘grabbed the
first person in his path’, it was the young boy. His sister, also, was helped in.
Master Nicola-Yarred recalled the gentlemen helped some others into the
boat, as well. He was later told that his benefactor was none other than John
Jacob Astor himself.
374
Second Class passenger Anna Hämäläinen, her infant son Viljo, and their
friend Marta Hiltunen were just coming along A Deck at that time. The two
women had realized ‘that the ship was doomed’ as the sea approached the
forward decks. Although the ‘crowd along the rail’ was thick, she
remembered no sign of panic. ‘Some were crying and others were perfectly
calm. We were all sort of dazed. The officer who was superintending the
loading [Lightoller] of that boat [No. 4] looked around and saw me with the
baby in my arms,’ she recalled.
‘Here’s a woman with a baby,’ he shouted. Then he told her: ‘Hurry up
and get into the boat.’
Anna handed Marta her handbag, expecting that she would follow her into
the boat. Then Anna was ‘shoved’ into the boat just as it began to lower.
375
Marian Thayer also managed to board Boat No. 4, along with her maid
Margaret Fleming. She had separated from her husband and son about an hour
before, and John and Jack had assumed that the two ladies were safely away
in a boat. The two men had then run across Chief Dining Saloon Steward
George Dodd, who informed them that Marian and Margaret were still
waiting for their boat; Dodd then reunited them with the two ladies. However,
later, Jack and his parents had been separated in a crowd on the Grand
Staircase, and Jack had no idea where they had gone. Assuming his parents
had safely gotten into a lifeboat, he and his friend Milton Long went over to
the starboard side of the Boat Deck.
376
A few more passengers boarded, and at 1:50 a.m. – very near to the time
that No. 10 began to lower from the aft end of the ship – the order to lower
Boat No. 4 away was given. As it began its descent, First Class passengers
Arthur Ryerson, John Thayer, Colonel Astor, and Harry Widener stood back,
waving and putting on brave faces for their wives, even though they must have
known that their own chances of surviving and being reunited with them were
very slim. It was the last time their wives would see them.
Anna Hämäläinen recalled looking back and seeing her friend Marta still
on the deck. ‘The last I ever saw of her was when she stood near a group of
men and women.’377
As No. 4 approached the water, one set of the falls caught, tipping the boat
at an angle, and they had to be cut free with a knife. As the boat touched down,
a seaman shouted up: ‘We need another hand down here.’ Lightoller asked:
‘How many seamen have you?’ When the crewmember responded that it was
just himself, Lightoller said, ‘That is not enough.’ Then he sent Quartermaster
Walter Perkis and another sailor down the falls and into the boat. It was
Perkis who took charge.
378
At that point, there were approximately thirty occupants aboard, out of a
possible sixty-five.
379 Once Boat No. 4 was in the water, Emily Ryerson was
shocked to see that the deck they just left, A Deck, was only ‘20 feet’ from the
sea. She saw water rushing in open portholes along the waterline, with the
lights in the flooding rooms still blazing.
380 After releasing the falls, the boat
began to row aft, parallel to the side of the dying liner.
After Boat No. 10 left, Chief Baker Joughin went below to his room and
‘had a drop of liqueur’. Joughin’s cabin was actually not the cabin assigned to
him. He recalled: ‘I was occupying, and have occupied on the ‘Olympic’ and
the ‘Teutonic’, the confectioner’s room because it is a better room.’ This was
actually the Confectioner and Second Baker’s room, located just abaft of
watertight bulkhead K on the port side of E Deck, directly beside the
Reciprocating Engine Room hatch amidships.
381
While he was below, Joughin saw Surgeon Dr William O’Loughlin ‘and
spoke to him.’ Apparently around the same time, Joughin noticed that water
was collecting on the floor of his cabin, and that it was deeper on the port
side, underneath the closed porthole, than it was on the starboard side. He
wasn’t exactly sure where the water was coming from, but he believed that it
was coming through the open watertight door just forward of his room, and
then flowing to port.
Just as Joughin turned to leave, he saw ‘two men coming and they said
they were going to close’ the watertight door. They were starting to do so,
using a large spanner which was kept ‘alongside the door in a click ready for
use’, but Joughin went up the stairs without waiting to see them finish the
process.
382
Since all of the aft boats were gone when he arrived on the Boat Deck, he
went below again and began throwing deck chairs through the windows
because he thought they would float. After throwing what he thought was
‘about 50’ of the chairs overboard, Joughin went to the A Deck Pantry to get a
drink of water.
383
Meanwhile, as the boats that had already been launched began rowing
away from the ship, any doubts that their occupants still harbored about the
seriousness of the situation vanished. In Boat No. 13, Saloon Steward
Littlejohn and the others lay on their oars and looked back at the stricken liner.
Littlejohn noticed that the forward portholes on E Deck were already under
water. As he watched, he could see more lights further aft on E Deck going out
as the ship settled lower.
When Boat No. 15 was first lowered, Assistant Saloon Steward Nichols
said that ‘none of us had any idea Titanic would sink.’ They had heard a
rumor that the Olympic was on the way to rescue them, and Nichols believed
that ‘she would come in the morning and pick up the boats and take off the
people left on the Titanic.’ As soon as Boat No. 15 got a little distance away
from Titanic, Nichols must have begun to doubt this conclusion: he noticed
how far down by the head the ship was, because he saw the starboard
propeller sticking halfway out of the water. Also in Boat No. 15, Bertha
Mulvihill leaned against the gunwale and noted that the Titanic was ‘going
down slowly, yet surely. I had marked in my mind’s eye two portholes on the
vessel. I watched the water come to them, pass them and swallow them up
from sight. I was fascinated.’384
At about this time, Captain Smith returned to the Marconi room. He
informed Jack Phillips and Harold Bride that ‘she [Titanic] would not last
very long,’ and that the ‘engine rooms were taking water and that the dynamos
might not last much longer’. Coincidentally, Phillips had just remarked to
Bride that the ‘wireless was growing weaker’. Captain Smith did not release
them at that point, and left to return to the scene at the port side Boat Deck.
385
Perhaps in response to Captain Smith’s visit, Phillips decided to go out on
deck and have a look for himself; he turned the key over to Bride while he
was out. Bride attempted to establish contact with the Baltic, but he did not
think the connection was very good. He transmitted the information that
Captain Smith had just given him: ‘Engine room getting flooded.’ The Baltic’s
response was simply ‘We are rushing to you.’ This exchange took place
between 11:45–11:50 p.m. New York Time, or 1:47–1:52 a.m. Titanic
time.
386
Phillips returned from the Boat Deck rather dazed … he said things
looked ‘very queer’ out there, and that the ‘forward well deck was awash’.
He said that there was a heavy port list, which Bride had already noticed on
his own.
387 Phillips said it was time that they put on their lifebelts and
prepare to leave the cabin, but the Senior Operator returned to work at the key
without following through on his own suggestion. He remarked to Bride that
he should put on his clothes. Bride was puzzled, and it took a moment before
he realized that he was still in his pajamas. Making the mental connection, he
went to his cabin and dressed, and grabbed Phillips’ overcoat, which he
slipped over his partner as he worked. Phillips mentioned to his assistant that
he was worried that they might not even be transmitting, since the electrical
power was really beginning to fade; the ship’s lights were even beginning to
go dull. Despite his concerns, Phillips continued to work, and soon
discovered that the set was still transmitting and receiving; the two men
continued to work for another ten minutes …388
By the time Boat No. 2 began lowering away at 1:45 a.m., work was
already under way on Collapsible C on the starboard side, and Collapsible D
on the port. These craft were sitting on the deck just inside the davits for
Emergency Boats Nos 1 and 2. Work on C seems to have been advanced over
work on D by a few minutes, but men at both sides still had a lot of work
ahead of them. Fortunately, some of the work at getting these collapsibles
ready for launch had already been done. After leaving his place at the ship’s
wheel at 12:23 a.m., Quartermaster Hichens had been ordered by Second
Officer Lightoller to take the cover and grips off of Collapsible D. Able
Bodied Seaman Thomas Jones had also helped get D ‘ready’ before leaving
in No. 8.389
 It is likely that similar prep work had been done at Boat C.
Despite this, the crew still had to crank in the davits after Boats Nos 1 and
2 were lowered away, hook the collapsibles up to the falls, raise their canvas
sides, and then swing them out over the water. This was a lengthy process,
and far more complicated than getting the standard lifeboats ready for
lowering. Colonel Gracie was working with the crew at preparing
Collapsible D. He recalled:
We had the hardest time with the Engelhardt boat, lifting and pushing it
towards and over the rail. My shoulders and the whole weight of my
body were used in assisting the crew at this work … Lightoller’s
strong and steady voice rang out his orders in clear firm tones,
inspiring confidence and obedience.
390
After Boat No. 2 was away, Chief Officer Wilde crossed over to the
starboard side to Collapsible C. He helped load passengers into the boat, then
put out a call for someone to look after Boat C. Rowe recalled that in
response to Wilde’s call, Captain Smith told him to go help out at that boat,
and to take charge of the craft. The Quartermaster fired the last rocket at about
1:50 a.m.
391
The Nackids, Third Class passengers.
By that time, First Officer Murdoch had moved forward along the Boat
Deck and arrived at the scene surrounding Collapsible C. When he got there,
he found that the collapsible was already being loaded. At about that point,
Wilde left Boat C and returned to the port side, most likely by passing through
the Bridge. There he got to work loading Boat D.
392
Quartermaster Bright was only involved in the preparation work at Boat
C, leaving to help with Collapsible D, before the loading process began.
Rowe, who left with Boat C, described helping to fill it, while Bright did
not.
393
Around this time, Sahid Nackid came up to Collapsible C with his wife,
Waika ‘Mary’ and their infant daughter Maria. He remembered that during the
loading, the …
… sailors saw my wife, who had only her nightgown on, and me with
the baby, and motioned for her to take a seat in the boat. She did so. I
helped her over the side of the boat and was going to get in with her
when one of the sailors pushed me back and motioned for me to stay
behind. I pointed to the baby and he took it away from me and gave it
to my wife. The baby started to cry and reached out her hands for me,
but even then the sailors would not let me get in.
Nackid could see, however, that there was more room in the boat. He decided
to wait until the moment was just right to make his move and join them.
394
Another Third Class passenger, Emily Badman, literally had to be carried
up to the Boat Deck by her friend from Kent, England.395 He did so after
having heard a call of: ‘All women and children, this way.’ They had moved
forward to the starboard side of the Boat Deck, and he saw her safely into
Collapsible C.
396
Third Class passenger Amy Stanley, who had become separated from
Elizabeth Dowdell and little Virginia Emanuel, also found her way to
Collapsible C. She was placed safely aboard.397
J. Bruce Ismay stood near Boat C. He had worked all during the crisis like
a member of the crew, assisting women and children into the lifeboats, even
getting involved to the point that he occasionally, and quite unintentionally, got
underfoot … now it was clear to him that his company’s greatest
accomplishment was about to sink …
Indeed, the Titanic was dying, and dying fast; her buoyancy was beginning
to fade, and her palatial First Class accommodations were beginning to
disappear beneath the sea’s glassy surface. To those on the deck, the end
seemed to be nearer now that water was beginning to roll over the Well Deck.
It would soon swamp the Forecastle, as well. The sad truth that seemed so
difficult to believe just over an hour earlier was now clear to almost
everyone. The Titanic was being inundated by the sea, the same sea which she
was supposed to conquer; now she was being swallowed by it … and there
wasn’t much time left.
The pace of work at getting the collapsible lifeboats away was now
becoming frenzied. Lightoller himself realized that ‘there was not a single
moment to lose’ unless they wanted to suffer the ignominy of having the ship
go down with lifeboats – already a precious commodity that night – still
hanging in the davits. After seeing Boat No. 4 away, Lightoller had returned to
the Boat Deck. When he arrived, he came across Chief Purser McElroy,
Assistant Purser Barker, Surgeon Dr William O’Loughlin, and Assistant
Surgeon John Simpson.
Simpson, Lightoller later recalled, was ‘a noted wag’, and said: ‘Hello,
Lights, are you warm?’
Lightoller looked at himself and realized that he was quite a sight. Despite
the freezing temperatures, he had been working so hard on the lifeboats that he
had long since shed both his greatcoat and the lifebelt he had donned after
getting the revolvers in Murdoch’s cabin earlier that night. Even then, standing
in just his pajamas, with his uniform pants and a sweater thrown over them, he
was ‘in a bath of perspiration’.
There was not much time for the men to talk … Lightoller knew that they
wouldn’t ‘have the ship under [them] much longer’. The small group shook
hands and said their good-byes, and then Lightoller moved on to the scene at
Boat D in time to begin assisting in the effort to get it ready to lower.
398
Things were hectic at Collapsible D, as there were very few women
nearby, and quite a number of men and crewmembers. When Lightoller first
arrived alongside the collapsible, someone shouted that there were men in the
boat. Lightoller looked over, and seeing a group of men who he described as
‘Dagoes’, he hopped into the boat, drew his revolver, and ‘encouraged them
verbally’ to get out. The men promptly complied, giving the Second Officer
‘the satisfaction of seeing them tumbling head over heels onto the deck,
preferring the uncertain safety of the deck, to the cold lead which … they fully
imagined would follow their disobedience.’ Lightoller later recalled that the
revolver wasn’t even loaded; if true, then it was a bold bluff on his part. After
this incident, the crew got the boat over the edge of the deck. It was finally
ready to load. A group of crewmen established a line to block any more men
from approaching the collapsible as it was being filled.399
Meanwhile, Jane Hoyt and her husband Frederick had watched the loading
of the lifeboats, but had not separated from each other, and they still stood on
the sloping decks. Jane had noticed their friend, Dr O’Loughlin, as he moved
about the ship during the evacuation. She thought that he ‘was one of the
bravest men on the boat. His fatherly advice was carried out in many
instances where he saw opportunities for people to get a chance to save their
lives, and he always went away with a “good-bye and God bless you”.’
After seeing all of these things take place, the Hoyts approached the ‘last
collapsible life boat’ on the port side, Boat D, and Frederick told Jane that
she ‘would have to get in’. She did not want to, however, and ‘did so only
after much persuasion and after we had bid each other goodbye’. She
remembered that the scene at this collapsible was rather chaotic, as …
… there was a sudden rush of steerage passengers … and it looked as
if it [the collapsible] might be upset. … Chief Officer Wiley [sic,
Wilde], also drowned, pulled his gun and ordered every man in the
boat to get out.
400
In Boat No. 5, approximately a hundred yards away from the ship, Third
Officer Pitman sat and watched as Titanic’s head sank deeper and deeper, and
the last line of lit portholes underneath the Forecastle head disappeared. It
was a sobering moment. Prior to this observation, Pitman had not yet given up
hope that the ship would stay afloat.
401
In Boat No. 2, Fourth Officer Boxhall also noticed the lines of lights going
underwater as the ship settled further by the head. Following orders, Boxhall
had managed to row around the stern of the Titanic heading for the starboard
gangway doors, but it had been quite a struggle getting there, particularly with
the lack of trained oarsmen. As they passed around the stern, the boat came
very near the ship’s propellers, which were now fully out of the water.
Boxhall later said: ‘I’m not certain if I didn’t pass underneath them.’402
Boxhall reported that as No. 2 rounded the stern, it was drawn closer to
the ship by what he thought was ‘a little suction’, and that this ‘suction’ was
greater when the ship was settling than it was when the ship actually went
down. However, Able Bodied Seaman Osman felt that there was ‘no suction
whatever’. They also had to avoid a rain of deck chairs and debris that was
being thrown overboard for people to cling to if they took to the water.
When he got within two hundred feet of the gangway, the Fourth Officer
began to feel uneasy about getting closer to the side of the ship. He then
ordered the boat to pull further away from the side of the liner. Despite the
fact that there were just seventeen people aboard his lifeboat, he justified this
by saying that he felt that there was very little room for additional passengers
in No. 2, and was worried about ‘being rushed and losing everybody in the
boat’.
403
When released from duty at about 1:20 a.m. in the Engine Room, Greaser
Frederick Scott had gotten a lifebelt and proceeded up to the Boat Deck. He
had noticed that ‘all the engineers and firemen and all that … [who] were on
watch’ had come up on deck right after him. About a half-hour after being
released from the Engine Rooms Greaser Scott was standing on the Boat Deck
with the group of engineers, trimmers and firemen.
404 They were standing up
against the aft electric crane on the starboard side of the Boat Deck.
405
 Among
the others in the group, Scott spied Senior Second Engineer William
Farquharson.
406
At about this same time, Greaser Thomas Ranger emerged from the Fan
Rooms in the deckhouse on the Boat Deck above the First Class Smoking
Room. He went to the starboard-aft quarter of the deck, which was normally
apportioned to Second Class passengers.
407 There he found the group of about
twenty firemen, trimmers and other engineering staff, and he stopped to talk to
them. They heard that ‘all the boats had left the ship’. At the time, Ranger
noticed that the ship had a ‘slight list to port’, and was down by the head, but
he could not see whether the ship’s bows were under water from his vantage
point.
408
All the way forward on the Boat Deck, Collapsible D was still loading.
Jane Hoyt had reluctantly left her husband and boarded that boat. She
recognized Mrs Irene Harris and 38-year-old Gertrude Thorne – George
Rosenshine’s mistress – in the collapsible with her. However, the rest of the
people boarding with her seemed to be ‘steerage passengers, among them
several women’.
409
2:00 a.m. – 2:20 a.m.
By this point, Greasers Thomas Ranger and Frederick Scott had separated
from the other engineering staff on the starboard side of the Boat Deck, and
crossed over to the port side. They looked over the edge of the deck and saw
Boat No. 4 rowing aft along the port side of the ship, almost directly below
them. The two greasers decided that this was their opportunity to leave the
ship.
Both men climbed out on the davits. Ranger used the aft davit for Boat No.
16 – the very aft-most davit on the port side of the deck.
410 They climbed out
with no little difficulty because their lifebelts were so bulky. Once they
reached the end of the davits, they nimbly caught hold of the falls, where they
began working their way down toward the water. Scott had only gotten
halfway down, however, when he somehow lost his grip and went plunging
into the icy seawater. Ranger managed to stay on the fall all the way to the
water, and climbed directly into No. 4 without even getting his feet wet. Scott
was pulled in within just a few minutes.
411
Meanwhile, on the starboard side, Collapsible C was ready to lower
away. The circumstances surrounding the loading of this boat are unclear, due
to contradictory eyewitness testimony. Some survivors reported that there
were crowds around the boat and that warning shots had to be fired to keep
them back; others, mainly crewmembers, painted a picture that suggests there
were few if any women and children on the scene as the boat lowered away,
and that things were perfectly orderly.
412 Regardless, by that point in the
process, First Officer Murdoch seems to have been having difficulty finding
more women to put in, and there were no more to be found in the immediate
area. Quartermaster Rowe got into the boat to work at the after fall, and
Murdoch ordered the boat lowered away.
413
White Star Chairman Bruce Ismay and William Carter, another male
passenger from First Class, climbed into the boat just then.
414 Murdoch could
not have helped but see them; if he did, he did not register a complaint or ask
them to get back out. It was now 2:00 a.m. Quartermaster Rowe believed
there were approximately thirty-nine seats occupied as the boat began to
descend. After daylight broke, four ‘Chinamen or Filipinos’ who were
stowaways came up from between the seats, meaning that Collapsible C
actually had a complement of forty-three people.
415
Rowe remembered that there was difficulty lowering the boat away, so
much so that it took five minutes to reach the water, even though the sea was
not far below. The liner was then listing 10° to port, causing the rubbing
strake to keep ‘catching on the rivets down the ship’s side’. The men struggled
to push it off the ship’s side to free it, and to prevent damage to the fragile
craft.
In the midst of this confusion, as the lifeboat was descending toward the
sea, Sahid Nackid decided the time was right to make his move. He jumped
into it and landed flat on his face. ‘The women covered me over with their
skirts,’ he recalled, ‘and I laid there. There had been so much confusion in
casting off that the sailors did not see me jump and of course, did not see me
afterwards because I was covered up.’416
Amy Stanley recalled:
As we were being lowered a man about 16 stone jumped into the boat
almost on top of me. I heard a pistol fired – I believe it was done to
frighten the men from rushing the boat. This man’s excuse was that he
came because of his baby. When we rowed off the child must have
died had I not attended to it.
417
The sinking of the ship was now accelerating right before the eyes of those
aboard. When Collapsible C started down, Rowe observed that the Well Deck
was ‘awash’, but that by the time the lifeboat was in the water and they cast
off, the Well Deck had ‘submerged’. He also recalled that the Forecastle head
was not submerged at that point.
418
Emily Badman remembered wondering, as Boat C was lowered to the
water, what would become of them. She wasn’t frightened at all, she later
recalled. However, once the lifeboat had reached the water, she ‘could see
that the Titanic was fast sinking and the six men who were rowing pulled …
as fast as they could.’ At dinner that evening, Emily had remarked to her
friends that she wished she could see the Titanic from a small boat … as Boat
C pulled away from the dying liner, she got her wish.
419
Sahid Nackid remembered that as soon as the boat had cast off the sailors
‘started to row as fast as they could’, but he remained concealed in the boat’s
bottom, afraid to show himself for fear of retribution for having boarded the
boat without permission.
420
Meanwhile, back on the port side at Collapsible D, time was running out
to finish loading the lifeboat. Lightoller was standing in the craft, helping
passengers over the bulwark at the edge of the Boat Deck. A few minutes
earlier, Lightoller had looked down the stairwell just abaft the Bridge. These
stairs led down to A Deck where there was a landing, and then continued
down to B Deck; thus, there was a clear line of sight to that location from the
Boat Deck. Alarmingly, he saw that water had already reached B Deck, and
was rapidly climbing the stairs towards A Deck.
421
Even as the icy seawater was creeping up towards their location, the crew
was having ‘the utmost difficulty’ in finding women to board the boat.
Archibald Gracie and Clinch Smith ‘ran along the deck … some distance aft
shouting, “Are there any more women? Are there any more women?” ’ Gracie
was beginning to notice ‘a very palpable list to port as if the ship was about
to topple over’. No more women would be boarding the boat.
Just then the officers – Gracie heard Lightoller, but Lightoller was
repeating the order from Wilde – shouted out: ‘All passengers to the starboard
side to straighten her up!’
422 With this order, Gracie believed that ‘the final
crisis had come, with the boats all gone, and … when we were to be
precipitated into the sea.’ He prayed that he might be saved, and he fell back
on his training at West Point to maintain his composure. Clinch Smith urged
‘immediate obedience’ to Lightoller’s orders, and the pair crossed over to the
starboard side.
When they arrived there, Gracie thought that the list of the deck was less
noticeable, but that the situation was every bit as desperate; here all the boats
had gone. He saw a crowd gathered along the midships rail, and spotted John
Thayer – Jack must have failed to see his father, although they were both on
the same side of the deck – and George Widener in among the group. The two
men were talking as if they were trying to decide what to do next. Gracie was
horrified to find two of the ladies ‘whom more than an hour previous I had …
consigned to the care of Sixth Officer Moody on Deck A.’ Caroline Brown
and Edith Evans quickly described how they had become separated from Mrs
Appleton and Mrs Cornell. Gracie had not been introduced to Miss Evans
before, and asked her name.
423
In the meantime, some of the crew working at Boat D had cried out: ‘Any
more women and children?’
‘There are no women,’ was the response from someone.
Around that time, Archibald Gracie was standing on the starboard Boat
Deck. He saw a crewman coming over from the port side, where they had just
left, calling out that there was room for more ladies in Boat D. Gracie seized
Mrs Brown and Miss Evans by the arm, and rushed them to a line of crew
near amidships who said that only the women could proceed. Gracie handed
them off for the second time that night and returned to the starboard side.
The two women were moved to the railing by the collapsible boat when
word came back that there was room for just one more. Edith Evans insisted
that Mrs Brown take the seat. ‘You go first. You are married and have
children.’424
Meanwhile, several crewmen were ordered in to man Boat D, including
Quartermaster Bright. Chief Officer Wilde, noticing that no more seamen were
available to man the boat, turned to the Second Officer and said: ‘You go with
her, Lightoller.’ Lightoller looked up and said: ‘Not damned likely!’ Then he
jumped back aboard Titanic in defiance of Wilde’s order.
425 Chief Second
Class Steward John Hardy remembered that Lightoller said he would get out
and ‘make room for somebody else,’ and that he then asked Hardy if he could
row. When Hardy said that he could, he was allowed into the boat.
426
After being present at the loading and lowering of Collapsible C on the
starboard side of the Boat Deck, First Class passengers Hugh Woolner and
Mauritz Håkan Björnström-Steffansson went down to A Deck, allegedly to
look for anyone there and escort them to a lifeboat. Even more likely than that,
though, they had seen that Collapsible D was still not lowered on the port
side, and realized it was their last chance to be rescued. They probably
thought that they would have a greater chance of boarding the boat from the
Promenade, since, unlike the Boat Deck, there were no crowds there, and no
crewmembers were guarding entry from there. Once on A Deck, they came
around the front cabins to the port side, where the collapsible would be
lowering past them.
It was 2:05 a.m. when Collapsible D was ordered away. There were
twenty people aboard.427 As it descended toward the water, just ten feet
below, Quartermaster Bright looked forward and saw the sea engulfing the
Forecastle. As the boat descended past A Deck, the aft fall got hung up
momentarily, and Bright called out to stop lowering the forward fall, and to
let out the aft one.
428
As D was lowered away, Frederick Hoyt stood at the edge of the deck and
waved goodbye to his wife. Jane noticed that at about that time, Captain Smith
was giving orders through his megaphone ‘here and there’. However, because
of the ‘general din’ Jane Hoyt did not think it likely that the orders were heard
at a great distance. She recalled of the lowering process:
Seamen started to lower us but the boat suddenly gave a heavy list and
the men left us hanging suspended from the air and ran to the upper
side so as to save themselves. Finally one of the two men came back
and completed the task of lowering us to the water.
429
Meanwhile, Frederick Hoyt decided to approach Captain Smith; he had
known the Captain for fifteen years, and approached to sympathize with him
on the accident. He remarked to Smith ‘on the seriousness of the situation’.
The Captain replied, agreeing ‘that it was “terrible”. ’ Hoyt did not want to
‘bother him with questions’, as he knew that ‘he had all he wanted to think
of’. At the time, Hoyt ‘never expected to be saved’. Captain Smith then
suggested that Hoyt ‘go down to A Deck and see if there were not a boat
alongside.’ Smith added that Hoyt would have to jump and told him that ‘you
had better do it soon.’ It was clear that the Captain knew the end was near.
Hoyt followed the Commander’s advice, and descended – probably by
means of the stairway directly behind the Bridge – to the Promenade Deck. He
was surprised to find Collapsible D ‘still hanging on the davits,’ as he was
completely unaware of the delay in the lowering while he had been talking to
the Captain. An idea began to form in his mind … if he could jump overboard
and swim to the boat, they might just pick him up … He shed his overcoat, and
then jumped into the water.
430
Woolner and Björnström-Steffansson, now at the railing on A Deck, also
took advantage of this temporary halt in lowering; they launched themselves
out towards the collapsible, which, due to the list, swung approximately five
feet away from the side of the ship as it lowered past them. Water had begun
lopping over the forward bulwark rail on the port side of A Deck as
Collapsible D descended past, sending a surge of green seawater rushing
around the men’s feet. Both had feared they would end up boxed in against the
ceiling as the water rose. Steffansson tumbled head over heels into the bow of
the collapsible, while Woolner came up somewhat short, and struck the
gunwale with his chest. His lifebelt cushioned him, but caused him to bounce
off, and nearly fall into the water. He caught himself at the last moment. As he
was pulled aboard, his legs dangled in the freezing water.
431
Jane Hoyt, in the lifeboat, was entirely unaware of her husband’s leap into
the sea. She recalled that as their lifeboat was ‘leaving the ship’s side’, she
could ‘quite distinctly’ hear the upbeat refrains of ‘Alexander’s Ragtime
Band’ being played by the ship’s musicians.
432 Just as the boat was beginning
to pull off, and water reached the ceiling of A Deck, just below the Boat
Deck, the crewmen in the lifeboat noticed something in the water. It was a
man swimming towards them, and they quickly hauled him aboard. It turned
out to be Frederick Hoyt … Hoyt’s plan, the formulation of which had been
aided by Captain Smith himself, had worked. As Hoyt lay shivering in the
bottom of the collapsible, Rene Harris recalled that he looked up at his wife –
who still had not recognized him – and called out: ‘Jane’.
Jane Hoyt looked into his face, and her first response was to call out her
husband’s name. Then she exclaimed, ‘My God! It’s my husband!’ One of the
First Class ladies put her fur robe on the man, and Jane Hoyt tossed him her
shawl to help him keep warm.
433
Back up on the Boat Deck, Lightoller turned his attention to his next and
most difficult project: Collapsible B, still sitting on the roof of the Officers’
Quarters abreast of the forward funnel. A group of crewmen was now
swarming over it and its counterpart, Collapsible A, on the starboard side;
they must have been cursing the asinine concept of placing collapsible boats
in this location, especially as time was evaporating before their very eyes …
434
It had taken the crew quite some time to prepare both Collapsibles C and
D for loading and lowering. Unfortunately, it was now obvious that there was
not going to be enough time to complete the even more complicated
preparation procedure of Boats A and B …
Second Class passenger William Mellors had watched as the last boats
left the ship. He later recalled that ‘it was an awful sight to see the men’s
faces when the last boat left.’435 Hope for rescue had begun to drain from the
men still left aboard, and the increasing feelings of desperation were
palpable.
Third Class passenger Rhoda Abbott and her sons Rossmore and Eugene
had stuck together for a time once they had reached the Boat Deck. They had
watched lifeboat after lifeboat being lowered to the sea; she had also seen
men enter lifeboats that were lowered late, and without intervention by the
officers.
When the final boat had lowered away, there were still ‘at least seven
women’ on the starboard side of the deck near Mrs Abbott. At some point, the
ship’s crew had pushed 16-year-old Rossmore back with the other men,
separating him from his mother and his brother Eugene. Mrs Abbott and her
sons were never able to get into the lifeboats, ‘as there was no room’ in them.
The mother and her two sons, as well as the other women left behind from the
last lifeboat, all stood near each other …436
Meanwhile, Jack Thayer and his friend Milton Long were also on the
starboard side of the Boat Deck, ‘just a little aft of the Captain’s bridge’. The
pair had lost sight of Jack’s father John, and his mother, some time before. His
mother had subsequently been put off in Boat No. 4. The two young men had
watched the crowd around ‘the last boat to go on the forward part of the
starboard side’, and decided not to get mixed up in what was going on there.
Thayer recalled that the list to port was growing very steep, and he also
noticed that at about that time, people began to jump from the stern of the ship.
Gathering himself, Thayer had decided to jump and slide down one of the
falls, and then swim to the boats that were lying off the starboard side. Three
times, however, Long convinced him to wait; even that late in the sinking, they
both thought there was a possibility that Titanic might remain afloat.
437
Despite the obvious time constraints, Lightoller worked feverishly at Boat
B on the port side; meanwhile, First Officer Murdoch and Sixth Officer
Moody toiled at Boat A on the starboard side.
438 A good group of determined
crewmen and passengers assisted on both sides. Racing the sea, they hoped
that they could get the boats hooked up, loaded, and lowered away before the
ship sank from under their feet.
In the Marconi shack, Phillips and Bride remained at their post, even
though the ship’s power was fading fast and they would not be able to transmit
for much longer. At some point after he had ordered Quartermaster Rowe into
Collapsible C – and perhaps in response to the fact that the ship was so
obviously close to sinking – Captain Smith returned to the Marconi shack for
the last time, ‘a very short period after’ his previous visit.
439 He released the
young men from their duty, telling them that they had ‘done their best and
could do no more’, and that they ‘had better take care of yourselves’. Then he
was gone.
440
Instead of getting up to leave, Phillips doggedly stuck to his work. It was
2:02 a.m. Bride remembered that he could hear what Phillips was tapping out,
and thought that he was communicating with the Frankfurt and the Carpathia,
perhaps in response to receiving messages from those vessels. It was difficult
for him to tell, though, since Bride wasn’t wearing the headphones, and
couldn’t hear the incoming transmissions.
441
Bride’s recollections of those final minutes were vivid. The two men
could hear people rushing about out on deck. Phillips was blatantly annoyed
at the Frankfurt’s operator, who ‘persisted in calling and was interfering with
Mr Phillips in reading the Carpathia’s message’. Phillips expressed his
‘uncomplimentary opinion’ of the Frankfurt’s operator, telling him: ‘You are
a fool. Keep out and do not interfere with our communication.’ Then he tried
to tell the Carpathia that they ‘were abandoning the ship, or words to that
effect’. Bride said that Phillips tried calling ‘once or twice more, but the
power was failing us’, and he didn’t think that they ‘were getting a spark, as
there were no replies’.
442
Bride recalled with admiration his colleague’s selfless work during those
final minutes: ‘He was a brave man. I learned to love him that night, and I
suddenly felt a great reverence to see him standing there sticking to his work
while everybody was raging about. I will never live to forget the work of
Phillips for the last awful fifteen minutes.’443
Bride had already taken the time to put on his own lifebelt, but Phillips
was so preoccupied with his work that Bride had to strap his colleague’s
lifebelt on him as he worked the key. Phillips asked Bride to get his spare
money and another coat while he kept working, and when Bride looked back
out, he was horrified to see that they had an uninvited guest. A stoker had
come in and was quite literally slipping Phillips’ lifebelt off his back.
Phillips was too absorbed in his work to notice. Bride, who was very
impressed with Phillips’ courage, was outraged with this stoker’s behavior;
he knew the man had his own lifebelt and should have known where to get it.
Bride flew at him even though the stoker was a ‘big man’, and Bride was
‘very small’. Bride’s account suggests that he might have hit him with an
object, as he said: ‘I don’t know what it was I got hold of.’ Bride later
admitted the feelings of rage and hatred that he directed at the thief: ‘I
suddenly felt a passion not to let that man die a decent sailors’ death. I wished
he might have stretched rope or walked a plank. I did my duty. I hope I
finished him. I don’t know.’ Phillips and Bride promptly cleared out of the
cabin, leaving the motionless stoker to his fate.
444 They emerged on the port
side of the Boat Deck via the door just across from where Boat No. 4 had
been. When they arrived in the cold night air, there were people ‘running all
over the place’, and Bride heard ‘the tunes of the band’, coming ‘from aft ... It
was a rag-time tune.’445
Around this time, a large group of Third Class passengers who had
previously been somewhere else below began to emerge, via the forward
First Class Grand Staircase and First Class Entrance, onto the Boat Deck.
Where these passengers were coming from, and why it took them so long to
reach the deck, is unknown. Many who had been working on the lifeboats had
felt that the majority of women had already gotten away because there were so
few to be found as they loaded Collapsibles C and D … Now they were
horrified to find that there were many women and children in this new group
that was swarming on deck, all of them desperately looking for a place in a
lifeboat …446
The men on the port and starboard sides of the Boat Deck and atop the
roof of the Officers’ Quarters were still struggling to get the collapsibles
down to the deck and ready for launch. There was a shortage of crewmembers
available to help on the port side, so an officer, possibly Lightoller, crossed
over the roof of the Officer’s Quarters and asked: ‘Are there any seaman
down there among you?’ Several answered the call, and crossed over to the
port side. The canvas cover spars from the collapsibles were leaned up
against the walls of the deck house, providing a slope that the men planned to
slide the boats down on.
447 Harold Bride realized that Lightoller’s group just
forward and above him needed help, and he darted up to the roof to aid in the
difficult effort. Phillips ran aft, and that was the last time Bride saw him
alive.
448
Lamp Trimmer Hemming had jumped out of Boat No. 6 earlier in the night
in order to assist in its lowering. Now he was among the group assisting the
Second Officer on the roof of the Officers’ Quarters. Lightoller glanced over
and saw him, asking why he hadn’t gone yet. ‘Oh, plenty of time yet, sir,’
Hemming replied cheerfully. Lightoller was impressed – Hemming had
loyally stuck with him throughout the night. The Second Officer had been
concentrating so hard on getting the boats away that he hadn’t even noticed
him until that very moment.
449
Just astern of where Phillips and Bride emerged on the Boat Deck, the
orchestra began playing their last piece. The debate as to what the last piece
was, as well as when exactly the band stopped playing, rages to this day.
Some survivors claimed the band had stopped playing earlier in the night,
while many others, including Harold Bride, said that they played right up until
the final moments. Many later reported that the last piece played was the
hymn, ‘Nearer My God to Thee’. However, others who were in the area later
reported that they did not play this hymn. Indeed, at least one – Colonel
Gracie – felt that playing such a piece at that time would have been a tactless
reminder of impending doom.
450 Harold Bride remembered that they played
‘Autumn’, referring either to the hymn by that name, or to the popular waltz
‘Songe d’Automne’, by Archibald Joyce. Interestingly, this particular piece
was found in the White Star request book.
451
Whatever it was that they played, it was a surreal moment… the strains of
string music echoed across the water as the officers and crew tried to clear
the last two collapsibles. Crowds began to gather around the area,
particularly on the starboard side. Many of the passengers who had just
arrived on deck, seeing the water so close to the deck and that there was very
little chance to get to the last two collapsibles, turned toward the imagined
safety of the stern, which had risen out of the water as the bow settled lower
and lower. On the Poop Deck, astern, a large crowd was beginning to grow. It
was comprised of people from all walks of life and levels of social status:
from the humblest of immigrants to wealthy First Class passengers.
Second Class passengers Father Thomas Byles and Father Joseph
Peruschitz stood together amid a ring of passengers and began granting
absolutions, telling them to ‘say acts of contrition and prepare themselves to
meet the face of God’. Both men had assisted passengers throughout the
sinking. Following the collision, Father Byles had gone through the steerage
passageways with his hand uplifted, telling everyone to remain calm, and
granting them his blessings and absolution. Later, both men had helped
passengers into the lifeboats, ‘saying prayers’, and ‘whispering words of
comfort and encouragement to all’. Father Byles had twice refused to board a
lifeboat during the night.
452
Most people who saw the clergymen at work were struck positively by the
scene. However, August Wennerström formed a different opinion of their
efforts. This was based on the actions of passengers, or lack thereof, when he
had seen one of the priests working with some of them earlier in the night: ‘On
one side of the deck laid 75 Irish in a circle with a preacher in their middle,
praying, crying, asking God and Mary [sic] to help them … They just prayed
and yelled, and never lifted a hand to help themselves. They had lost their
own will power and were expecting God to do all the work.’453
Meanwhile, on the Boat Deck, Thomas Andrews was still hard at work.
At around 2:10 a.m., well after Stewart had seen him during his quiet moment
of reflection in the First Class Smoking Lounge, he was sighted tossing deck
chairs overboard to aid the ‘unfortunates’ who were likely to end up
struggling in the water. He was next spied carrying a lifebelt, apparently on
his way to the Bridge.
454
Despite whatever feelings of grief or impending doom were rushing
through his mind, he was able to put those aside and continued working to
save others until the end, just as he had done throughout the night. He would
not survive the sinking; neither would any of the other members of the Harland
& Wolff Guarantee Group. Engineer Thomas Millar, who had worked to build
the ship at the Belfast shipyard and then signed on as a member of her crew,
would also lose his life.
Captain Smith headed forward toward the Bridge of his ship, his thoughts
doubtlessly moving in the direction of his wife, Sarah Eleanor, and their
twelve-year-old daughter Helen. He must have known by then that he would
never see them again. Even so, he did not become despondent, but stuck to his
duties till the last.
At just about this time, Mess Steward Cecil Fitzpatrick was crossing from
the port side to the starboard through the Bridge. He recalled that just as he
was passing through …
… I saw Capt. Smith speaking to Mr Andrews, the designer of the
Titanic. I stopped to listen. I was still confident that the ship was
unsinkable, but when I heard Capt. Smith say: ‘We cannot stay any
longer; she is going!’ I fainted against the starboard side of the bridge
entrance.
455
Just when Bride reached Collapsible Boat B, the crew managed to push it
over the edge of the Officers’ Quarters. Somehow, things went horribly awry,
and the boat crashed to the deck, landing upside-down. Second Officer
Lightoller was still on the roof of the Officers’ Quarters, but Harold Bride
seems to have ‘scrambled’ down onto the Boat Deck to help launch it.
456
 Due
to the heavy port list that had developed, water had already reached the deck
on that side of the ship, and the collapsible landed in it, leaving no time for
the crew to right it, much less to hook it up to the falls.
457
On the starboard side, at about the same time, Murdoch’s group was
working frantically to free Collapsible A. Due to the list, the Boat Deck was
still dry at this location. The First Officer had ordered the davits cranked back
in so they would be ready to receive the collapsible. Hemming, having just
crossed over from the port side, helped untangle the falls that had been used to
lower both Boat No. 1 and Collapsible C. He then passed the block up to the
men working on the roof of the Officers’ Quarters. Sixth Officer Moody was
among them, and he called back down: ‘We don’t want the block. We will
leave the boat on deck.’458
The crew finally got Collapsible A loose, got two canvas cover spars
under the bow and pushed it over the edge of the Officers’ Quarters’ roof. It
crashed hard onto the deck, possibly damaging the canvas sides but unlike
Collapsible B, it landed upright.
Just then, a stunned Fitzpatrick was regaining his composure. He realized
that unless he ‘got into a boat or swam for it, there would be no chance of
being saved’. He headed over to join the efforts surrounding Collapsible A on
the starboard side, which he found had already been moved down onto the
Boat Deck.
459
Moody’s opinion that the boat should be left to float free was apparently
overruled. A group of what Eugene Daly estimated to be ‘6 or 7’ men –
among them the two officers, Steward Edward Brown and Saloon Steward
Thomas Whiteley, Mess Steward Fitzpatrick, Second Class passenger
William Mellors, and himself – slackened and then connected the falls to the
collapsible. Then they attempted to push the boat around the forward cowling
that provided access to the stairway to A Deck, pushing uphill toward the
davits against the port list.
460
Despite their efforts, the boat simply could not be moved, and their
progress was blocked by one of the funnel stays near the aft davit, inboard of
where Collapsible C had been stored. Fitzpatrick recalled: ‘When we tried to
swing her [Collapsible A] in the davits, she was wedged between the winch
of the davits and the spar.’ He remembered hearing the ‘band playing a hymn
at the last moment’, but he couldn’t actually pick out the tune.
461
Just then, water began gurgling up the forward hatchway onto the Boat
Deck, and it was clear to those still aboard that the ship was living on
borrowed time. Someone called out that they had forgotten to put the plug in
the collapsible. Fireman John Thompson, despite his hands having been
burned in a steam-related accident during the evacuation of the boiler rooms,
had helped load the lifeboats earlier in the night. Now, he leapt into
Collapsible A and unsuccessfully attempted to put the plug in.
462
First Class passengers Colonel Archibald Gracie and Clinch Smith saw
that there was no chance of the boat getting away safely, and began heading
aft. As they did so, they found ‘a mass of humanity several lines deep’
blocking their progress. These were Third Class passengers who had just
emerged from somewhere below deck.
463 Hemming estimated that there were
‘one or two hundred’ people in the crowd.464 Some of the women from this
throng stood nearby, hoping to climb in Collapsible A when it was ready to be
loaded.465
Olympic’s starboard Boat Deck, in the vicinity of Boat No. 1. Titanic’s bulwark here was not
planked, but was plain painted steel. However, much of the rest of this photograph is a match to
Titanic’s appearance in this area. It was here that a last-ditch attempt was made to get Collapsible
A into the davits for Boat No. 1 so it could be launched.
Hemming, realizing the attempts to launch Collapsible A were a valiant
but lost cause, crossed over to the port side and headed aft, where he saw a
lifeboat off the port quarter. He slid down one of the sets of falls there.
Plunging into the freezing water rendered him nearly senseless. After
recovering from the cold shock, Hemming immediately struck out for the boat.
He wasn’t wearing a lifebelt, and swam as hard as he could …466
Around this time, August Wennerström and fellow Third Class passengers
Edvard and Elin Lindell headed forward. They ran into a ‘Swedish woman
from Chicago’ and her four children whom he had gotten to know during the
voyage. Likely they were Alma Pålsson and her children Gösta, Paul, Stina,
and Torborg. Wennerström said that she had not gotten her children dressed in
time to get them up on deck and into a lifeboat before they were all gone. He
and his companions attempted to push through the crowd to get the family to
Collapsible A.
467
It was then about 2:15 a.m. The surreal moments created by the
juxtaposition of the frenzied activity on the ship’s upper decks and the calm
and peaceful refrains of the ship’s band ended abruptly, for just then the bow
of the ship took a ‘slight but definite plunge’.
468
Jack Thayer and Milton Long were still together on the starboard side of
the Boat Deck, just aft of the Bridge. Thayer had noticed that the ship’s list to
port, which had been steadily increasing, had suddenly eased until the ship
was on an even keel as the ship’s bow plummeted down. The two moved aft
to the bulwark rail, until they were in the vicinity of the No. 2 funnel.
Jack Thayer had had enough … it was time to go. He and Long moved to
the rail, and Long climbed up on top of it, facing out with his legs dangling off
into space. Thayer hesitated, and Long looked back. ‘You are coming boy,
aren’t you?’ Thayer told him to go ahead, that he would be with him in a
minute. Then Long slid straight down the side of the ship. Thayer jumped out,
well clear of the side, feet first, and landed in the icy water.
The cold was terrific. The shock of the water took the breath out of my
lungs. Down and down I went, spinning in all directions. Swimming as
hard as I could in the direction which I thought to be away from the
ship, I finally came up with my lungs bursting, but not having taken any
water. The ship was in front of me, forty yards away.
Thayer and Long had jumped within seconds of each other. Yet he never saw
Long – or his father – again.
469
Brown, Daly and the others suddenly found themselves knee, and then
waist deep in freezing water, and there was a frantic effort to cut the falls so
that Collapsible A could float free. It turned out that Moody’s plan had been
the correct one. Mess Steward Fitzpatrick had only moments before believed
the ship was still unsinkable … but then the ship began ‘suddenly dipping, and
the waves rushing up and engulfing’ him. He later told one of Thomas
Andrews’ friends that when the Bridge had become awash with water, he saw
Captain Smith and Thomas Andrews enter the sea together.
470
As water washed along the deck, Steward Brown leapt into Boat A and
cut the aft falls. Eugene Daly, William Mellors, Mess Steward Fitzpatrick and
First Class passenger Richard Norris Williams all gave accounts indicating
that the Boat Deck seemed to rise slightly after its initial plunge. Mess
Steward Fitzpatrick said: ‘After ten seconds the Titanic again righted
herself.’471
This brief recovery of the ship gave the group of men struggling around
Collapsible A one last chance to cut the falls, and they took full advantage of
it.
472 Eugene Daly and William Mellors, who had been clinging to the side of
the collapsible, worked together to cut the aft falls. Brown said that the crowd
started panicking as the water began washing around their legs, and ‘there
was a lot scrambled into it then … they all scrambled into the boat.’473
Daly said people were rushing around, and that while he was cutting the
falls, ‘the collapsible was crowded with people hanging upon the edges.’ 474
Somehow during the scramble, Saloon Steward Whiteley’s leg got tangled in
a coil of rope. He was knocked into the water, and the rope cut into his skin
and broke his leg; he did not feel the injury at the time, however, probably due
to shock, coupled with the freezing water which numbed his extremities.
475
Daly jumped overboard and fell into a mass of people. What happened
next traumatized him for the rest of his life: ‘Everything I touched seemed to
be women’s hair. Children crying, women screaming and their hair in my face.
My God, if I could only forget those hands and faces that I touched!’
476 Daly
said that the ‘water was icy and for the first few minutes, I thought I could not
survive the cold shock.’477
Mess Steward Fitzpatrick had felt the ship recover for a few seconds, but
then the downward plunge resumed. He remembered, in that horrible moment,
that …
… everyone who a minute before had been attempting to lower away,
except myself, had been swept into the fo’castle head. I saved myself
by clinging on to the davit winch.
I looked down the fo’castle, and saw the most horrible,
heartrending scenes I have ever witnessed. There were women and
children and firemen and stewards all fighting, shrieking for help in
their death struggles. I got on the other side of the winch which was
towards the after-part of the vessel, and levered myself up on the
deck.
Then I went to the edge of the ship and jumped into the icy water. In
order to escape the suction which I surmised would be caused by the
sinking of the gigantic liner, I struck out for very life. I swam from the
ship as the for’s’d was sinking. I did not feel any suction.
478
As the forward end of the Boat Deck plunged under, a wave of water washed
aft. Colonel Gracie and Clinch Smith were trying to reach the roof of the
Officers’ Quarters when it hit them. Gracie crouched and rode the wave like a
crest at the beach, and he managed to grab onto the railing on top of the
quarters. Clinch Smith was not so lucky. Gracie never saw him again.
479
After unsuccessfully attempting to board Boat No. 16 earlier in the night,
Scullion John Collins and another steward were pushing forward through the
crowd on the starboard side of the Boat Deck, trying to help a woman and her
two children into Collapsible A. Collins was carrying one of the children in
his arms. Seeing that the Titanic ‘intended to sink her bow’, someone forward
shouted for them to go aft, falsely claiming that a boat was being lowered
there. Collins turned to head aft, and was struck by the wave as he did so,
which washed him overboard. Tragically, he lost his grip on the child.480
Near Collapsible A, William Mellors was knocked into a stanchion by the
wave, seriously injuring his ankle, and he found himself ‘whizzing through the
water at an awful pace’.
481 As the water hit the collapsible, Steward Brown
was washed out of it and thrown into a ‘whirlpool’. Brown could not swim,
but fortunately was wearing his lifebelt.
482 August Wennerström and the
Lindells were thrown into the water, and they landed right in front of the
collapsible as it drifted further aft. During the confusion, they became
separated from Alma Pålsson and her four children, and never saw them
again. All five of the Pålssons perished.483
Further aft near the Gymnasium, First Class passenger George Rheims
stood with his brother-in-law Joseph Loring. Shortly before this, Loring had
grabbed his hands, saying, ‘George if you survive look after my babies. If I
live you will not have to worry about [your wife] Mary.’ After a quick trip
below, Rheims had returned, and then he and Loring stripped down to their
undergarments. Suddenly, the ship began ‘nosediving’. Rheims was knocked
from his feet and landed in a tangle of deck chairs and ropes, still on the deck.
Breaking free, Rheims spotted Loring, who said he wanted to head aft;
Rheims told him it meant death if he did, and that he should instead follow
him. Loring told him he couldn’t swim well enough. Seeing no other choice,
Rheims left Loring and leapt overboard. He never saw his brother-in-law
again.
484
Near this location, desperation set in as First Class passenger Peter Daly
contemplated what to do. Just as he was about to leap overboard, a woman
rushed up to him and said, ‘Oh, save me! save me!’ Daly replied: ‘Good lady,
save yourself. Only God can save you now.’ The lady begged him to help her
jump, so he took her by the arm and leapt overboard just as the wave hit. He
was washed clear of the side of the ship. Meanwhile, on the port side, Henry
Molson was last seen removing his shoes, and planning to swim for the
steamer on the horizon. Molson had previously survived the sinking of the
Scotsman in the Gulf of St Lawrence in 1899, and had swum away from the
Canada after it collided with a collier in the St Lawrence River in 1904; he
would not be as fortunate in his third shipwreck, and he was never seen
again.
485
The wave swept aft along the Boat Deck, swamping the Bridge and the
crew and passengers in the vicinity. Those not immediately swept away,
including Third Class passenger Carl Jansson and others on the starboard
side, began running aft. The wave struck them, and Jansson went
overboard.486 Somehow, through the maelstrom, Harold Bride managed to see
– or thought he saw – Captain Smith dive off the port Bridge wing into the
sea.
487 Bride grabbed onto an oarlock of the upside-down collapsible. It was
washed off the ship and he came up underneath it. As the Bridge submerged,
Collapsible B was pushed over to the starboard side of the ship, near the base
of the forward funnel, and Collapsible A was pushed aft, against a set of
empty davits that had not yet submerged.488
Chief Baker Joughin was still inside the Deck Pantry on A Deck when the
ship lurched, and he heard ‘a crash as if something had buckled’ that sounded
‘as if the iron was parting’. Then he heard a rush of people running aft
overhead. Joughin came up on deck, and got caught in the ‘tail end’ of a mob
of people heading aft towards the Poop Deck. Joughin tried to keep out of the
crowd as much as possible, and followed them down to the aft Well Deck. As
he was making his way aft, Joughin transferred his watch from his front to
back pocket, and noticed the time: ‘a quarter past two’. The electric lights
were still on.
489
Just then, Rhoda Abbott and her son Eugene – as well as the group of
ladies standing nearby – all slid off the deck into the water. Rhoda clung to
her son Eugene closely, but soon they were ‘drawn beneath the surface’ by a
whirlpool. When she returned to the surface, her son was gone. Then she was
pulled under again. The second time, she was ‘blown out of the water’ by an
explosion that burned her thighs.
490
This tremendous view of the Olympic’s Bridge and the roof of the Officers’ Quarters was taken in
New York during her first stay in that port. There are several differences from Titanic’s
appearance. However, much of what is seen here would have matched Titanic as her Bridge was
about to slide under the sea. Lightoller was pinned up against the ventilator just in front of the
smokestack. Interestingly, Collapsible B does not appear to be sitting in its standard position in
this photo.
On the roof of the Officers’ Quarters, Lightoller thought of turning aft – the
natural instinct that everyone had at that time – but like Rheims, realized it
would be a futile move. Instead, he walked forward to the roof of the Bridge,
which was then going under, and dove into the water. Lightoller described the
shock of the 28° water as being like ‘a thousand knives being driven into
one’s body’.
491
Instinctively, he struck out toward the Crow’s Nest, which
was coming level with the sea; then he changed his mind, realizing that it was
attached to the ship and was no refuge.
Suddenly, the force of the water rushing down the intake for the stokehold
ventilating fans – which was positioned on the roof of the Bridge just forward
of the No. 1 funnel – sucked him back and pinned him against the fidley
grating. He struggled to get free but time and again was drawn down, and he
found himself drowning. Lightoller was ‘rather losing interest in things’, and
was about to give up when the words of the 91st Psalm popped into his mind:
‘He shall give his angels charge over thee.’ Then came a rush of hot air from
below which spat him out and sent him sputtering up to the surface right next
to capsized Collapsible B, which had no one aboard at the moment. He
gratefully grabbed a rope attached to the boat and watched events unfold.492
Within moments, probably while Lightoller was underwater, the strains of
music had faded into oblivion. Water swamped the forward First Class
Entrance and Grand Staircase. The solid-oak staircase apparently broke up in
the turbulent waters and parts of it floated away through the shattered wrought
iron and glass dome.
493
As the stern rose higher out of the water, Lightoller watched as people
were piled into ‘helpless heaps around the steep decks’. Describing the scene,
he stated that there were ‘many in the water by this time, some swimming,
others definitely drowning … an utter nightmare of both sight and sound.’494
Just then, the forward funnel collapsed and fell forward and towards the
starboard side of the ship. The funnel crashed down, crushing a mass of
people who were struggling in the water. The funnel missed Collapsible B by
mere inches, washing off many who had begun to climb aboard since
Lightoller reached it, and pushing it clear of the sinking ship.495
Richard Norris Williams had been struggling in the water, and had been
separated from his father Charles Duane Williams. When they spotted each
other, his father, who was about ‘12–15 feet’ away, started swimming towards
him. Richard watched as the funnel came crashing down on top of his father.
He said that he was transfixed, not ‘because it had only missed me by a few
feet … curiously enough not because it had killed my father for whom I had a
far more than normal feeling of love and attachment; but there I was transfixed
wondering at the enormous size of this funnel, still belching smoke.’496
An effective artistic rendering of the scene as the Titanic began her final plunge.
Fireman John Thompson had managed to stay in Collapsible A when the
wave had hit, and he watched as the forward funnel collapsed. He said that
the funnel ‘broke loose and fell into the water with a roar, causing so great a
wash that our boat was sent spinning and I was knocked violently against one
of the davits.’ Thompson broke his arm, and was nearly unconscious when
someone hauled him back into the swamped collapsible.
497 The violent wash
mentioned by Thompson helped push Collapsible A away from the sinking
ship.
Eugene Daly, still struggling in the water, turned and looked over his
shoulder. He said that he could see the funnels of the Titanic being submerged
in the water. He reported that ‘those poor people that covered the water were
sucked down in those funnels, each of which was twenty-five feet in diameter,
like flies.’498 Daly’s description is probably of the second funnel, since the
first funnel fell soon after water reached its base.
August Wennerström had managed to climb aboard Collapsible A. As the
stern rose higher, he looked back at the ship and saw a man lowering himself
down past the rudder on what he thought was the ship’s log-line.
499
The lights of the ship still burned steadily, although they were a more
dullish-red as the last gasp of the ship’s power – supplied by the Emergency
Dynamos – began to fade. The stern began to rear up out of the water,
climbing steadily higher to something on the order of a 30° angle. However,
the exact angle could have appeared even greater than it really was to some,
depending on their vantage point.
500
Next a building and terrifying noise began to carry across the water; it
sounded like breaking china to some, and continuing, rumbling explosions or
thunder to many others. Many assumed that it was the ship’s engines and
boilers tearing loose and sliding through the hull before crashing out through
the ship’s nose … the reality was far more devastating. At about 2:17 a.m.,
501
almost all of the lights suddenly snapped out as the ship broke in half just
behind the third funnel.
Steward Brown, supported by his lifebelt, was struggling among the
crowd near the submerged Bridge of the ship when he heard a loud report.
Turning, he saw the stern of the ship give a ‘tremble’, and saw it going up. To
him, this indicated that the ‘bow had fallen off.’502 Floating in the water,
William Mellors came to his senses in time to see the ‘ship part in the
middle’.
503
Saloon Steward Whiteley was about sixty feet from the Titanic, clinging
with several other men to what he believed was an ‘oak wardrobe’. He
watched as the ship broke in half, and he actually saw ‘all the machinery drop
out of her’.
504 Sitting some distance off in Boat No. 15, Bertha Mulvihill was
also able to discern this fracture; she later said that the ship ‘exploded and
split in half’.
505
Steward Alfred Theissinger had been standing on the aft end of the
starboard Boat Deck, talking to Storekeeper Cyril Ricks and Steward Sidney
Siebert. All three men were wearing lifebelts. As they talked, ‘a violent
explosion suddenly shook the entire boat’. He immediately lost sight of
Storekeeper Ricks, but saved himself ‘from being thrown – God only knows
where – by grabbing hold of the rail. The vessel seemed to break in two.’ 506
This period illustration shows the Titanic reaching a steeper angle than she ever did before she
broke. Interestingly, however, the artist chose to depict the upper decks breaking open. The stern
of the ship did eventually reach this angle, but only after the breakup.
The Titanic’s stern begins to slide away into the depths. At that point, the stern section was nearly
vertical, not at the relaxed angle seen here.
After the break, the angle of the stern – which had been held by the
counter-balance of the flooded bow – then decreased, and it settled back into
the water to nearly an even keel momentarily. The third funnel fell forward
and the fourth funnel toppled backwards.
507 Just prior to the break, Richard
Norris Williams watched as the Titanic towered over him, and then saw it
settle back. Despite his feelings of horror and peril, he couldn’t help feeling
that it was a majestic sight.
508 Sitting in Boat No. 13, Steward Alexander
Littlejohn also said that the ‘stern part came down again and righted itself’.
509
Joughin had just gotten to the Well Deck and climbed to the outside edge
of the starboard side of the hull, when the stern gave a ‘great list to port’,
throwing the ‘many hundreds’ of people there into a heap. Joughin hung on and
managed to get to the outside of the railing on the starboard side of the Poop
Deck. He did not see anyone else holding onto the rail when he got there.
510
Still on the outside of the railing, he crawled along it, toward the very aft end
of the Poop Deck.
As the stern had fallen back into the water, many of those watching from
the sea and from the safety of the lifeboats were fooled into thinking that the
Titanic’s final, and greatest, safety feature had sprung to life … that the stern
was going to float, and that all those aboard would not, after all, be plunged
into a freezing sea. However, that false hope was soon shattered.
Interestingly, some recalled that not all of the lights went out as the ship
broke in half. Greaser Thomas Ranger, watching from Boat No. 4 very close
to the ship, remembered that as the stern section had come back ‘on a level
keel’, the ‘lights seemed to be going out then.’ He also noticed that the ‘lights
were right aft what were burning, on the after end what was floating’, and that
they were only completely extinguished ‘as the aft end of the ship went
under’.
511
Slowly, the stern began rising back up into the air. As it did so, Richard
Norris Williams saw it turn around in a semi-circle.
512 By that time, Eugene
Daly had managed to catch the edge of the upturned Collapsible B. So many
people had climbed onto the collapsible that there wasn’t enough room on it
for him to lift himself fully out of the water. Daly pulled himself halfway
aboard, lying on the keel with water up to his hips. He was so chilled by the
intense cold of the water that his senses were numbed and he was scarcely
conscious of the stern of the Titanic looming overhead.513 When he finally
noticed the ship, he saw that ‘her stern stuck up high. I thought she would fall
over on us as she seemed to be swinging around, but she did not.’514
Steward Theissinger remembered that the stern section of the ship, where
he was, ‘went way up into the air and remained in that position … The lights
had gradually gone out, excepting one light near where I stood. Several
hundred men were gathered about me. I saw that all was over.’ He turned to
Steward Siebert, who was the nearest person to him, and said: ‘Come we had
better get away and take our chances before she sinks.’ They leaped into the
water, and Theissinger swam for everything he was worth, with Siebert
closely behind.515
Cecil Fitzpatrick, the 21-year-old Mess Steward, saw Titanic ‘stick her
screws and propellers high into the air’, and heard her go down ‘with a
swish’ in ‘as clean a dive as ever was made by a fish’.
516
To many, the nearly fifteen hundred people stranded aboard the dying ship
looked like swarming bees, ‘clinging in clusters or bunches … only to fall in
masses, pairs or singly,’ as the stern rose higher.
517
The ship’s stern section continued to rise out of the water, struggling for
the sky until it was completely vertical. As it stood on end, it pointed like a
sinister finger, some thought, toward the heavens. There it remained for
several moments, perfectly balanced and unmoving. Then cruel physics took
over. As water began to flood the front end of the stern, it began to sink from
sight with a building momentum.
518
Finally, as her fantail dipped underwater for the last time, there was a
slight gulp. As the ship slipped under, the surface of the water was disturbed
so little that Chief Baker Joughin found himself in the sea, and did not think
that his head even went under as he let go of the Poop Deck railing. In
Collapsible C, Bruce Ismay, who was sitting with his back to the ship, did not
turn around, as he ‘did not wish to see her go down’. Indeed, he later felt glad
that he had not.
519
It was 2:20 a.m. Titanic, the unsinkable ship, was gone.
In this artist’s depiction, the first lifeboats pull alongside the Carpathia.

A
CHAPTER 6
ON ‘A SEA OF GLASS’
fter the Titanic disappeared from sight, there was a momentary calm
punctuated only by a loud, gurgling upwelling of water from where the
stern had disappeared. This bubble of air coming up from below was spitting
up to the surface large quantities of cork insulation,
1 wood, and other debris.
A ‘thin light-gray smoky vapor’ clung a few feet above the water. It reminded
one survivor of Dante’s description of Charon and the River Lethe in Hell.
2
Silence soon gave way to a horrifying cacophony of noise, as the fifteen
hundred people who had still been aboard the ship when it made its final
plunge began to scream and cry for help. It was a noise that would forever
haunt those who heard it – whether they were in the sea or were listening from
the safety of a lifeboat.
For those struggling for their lives among the panicked crowd in the water,
the situation was horrific. First Class passenger George Rheims was one of
these people, and he described the sounds of the cries as ‘atrociously grim,
mysterious – supernatural’.
3 Second Class passenger William Mellors, also
floating in the water, described the shouts as ‘terrible. There were great
masses of wreckage with hundreds of human beings fighting amongst hundreds
of dead bodies for their lives.’ 4
As Titanic had plunged under, Colonel Gracie had clung to one of the
ship’s railings, and had been dragged underwater. When his lifebelt and his
struggling brought him back to the surface, he found the surface of the water
strewn with both wreckage and a great mass of humanity. He described the
scene as follows:
There arose to the sky the most horrible sounds ever heard by mortal
man, except by those of us who survived this terrible tragedy. The
agonizing screams of death from over a thousand throats, the wails and
groans of the suffering, the shrieks of the terror-stricken and the awful
gaspings for breath of those in the last throes of drowning, none of us
will ever forget to our dying day. ‘Help! Help! Boat ahoy! Boat ahoy!’
and ‘My God! My God!’ were the heartrending cries and shrieks of
men, which floated to us over the surface of the dark waters
continuously for the next hour, but as time went on, growing weaker
and weaker until they died out entirely.
5
Second Officer Lightoller was still clinging to the rope dangling from the
upturned Collapsible B; people were struggling all around him in the water.
He described the scene simply as ‘an utter nightmare of both sight and sound,’
noting that to dwell on ‘those heartrending, never-to-be-forgotten sounds
would serve no useful purpose.’6
To those safe in the lifeboats, the noise coming to them across the water
was nearly unbearable. Sitting in the refuge of Boat No. 1, which had 28 of its
40 seats vacant, Lady Duff Gordon recalled a moment of ‘awful silence’ when
Titanic first disappeared, followed by ‘a bedlam of shrieks and cries’.
7 Boat
No. 1 was just 200 yards away from the ship when it sank,
8 close enough so
that its occupants could hear individual cries for help from the sea. As the
White Star ticket agent had told Lady Duff Gordon before she booked
passage, Titanic’s maiden voyage had, indeed, made history in ocean travel. It
just was not the sort of history that anyone wanted to make.
In Boat No. 14, Able Bodied Seaman Scarrott said ‘the cries from the
poor souls struggling in the water sounded terrible in the stillness of the night.
It seemed to go through you like a knife.’9 Sitting in Boat No. 13, Saloon
Steward Littlejohn described the cries as ‘terrible … awful and
heartrending.’10
In Boat No. 15, Saloon Steward Nichols said that ‘a horrible
shriek went up, cries for help and weird shouts – you can imagine what it is
like if you have ever been around when they are feeding a kennel of dogs –
that’s the only thing I can think of that it sounded like.’11
Imanita Shelley said that she and the other occupants of Boat No. 10 ‘tried
to sing, and some of the men tried to get all to shout, saying it would help us
keep our bearings, but we all knew it was a kindly ruse to try and drown out
that awful moaning cry, and we were unable to utter a sound. God grant that I
may never hear such a sound again. No words, just an awful despairing moan,
and all of them seemed to moan in the same key, regardless of what their
voices may have been. For over an hour, I resume [sic, presume], though it
seemed eternity, those awful cries continued.’12
These two photographs are of Saloon Steward Alexander Littlejohn. The photo on the left is how
he appeared at the time of the Titanic disaster; the photo on the right, taken shortly after the
sinking, shows that he had aged significantly in a span of months rather than years.
Heavily loaded with 55 and 68 occupants respectively, those aboard
Boats Nos 13 and 15 were powerless to help any of the crowd in the icy
water who were begging for help. They rowed even further away from the
scene. In Boat No. 13, Leading Fireman Frederick Barrett found that while the
thin work clothes he wore were appropriate for the heat of the boiler rooms,
they were not adequate for the frigid night air he was being exposed to.
Adding to his misery, he had been soaked to the skin during his escape from
Boiler Room No. 5 as it flooded, and was so numb that he could no longer
feel his limbs. Although he had been placed in charge before the boat
lowered, he had to relinquish control of the tiller to another crewmember. A
woman in the boat put a cloak over him, but he was so cold that afterwards he
could not remember what happened next.
13
Boat No. 9 was just 100 yards away from the ship when it sank.
Boatswain’s Mate Albert Haines, in charge of the boat, asked the men whether
they felt it advisable to go back. Despite having just forty people aboard, the
consensus was that the boat was too overloaded, and that it would be too
dangerous to return.
14 Saloon Steward William Ward said that it would have
been ‘madness’ to return.
15 As they struggled along with only four rowers, the
boat pulled even further away from the site.
16
It did not return to rescue
anyone from the water.
At one point during the night, Quartermaster Walter Wynn could clearly
see the red sidelight and a white light from a steamer on the horizon.
17 The
occupants of Collapsible C, which contained Bruce Ismay, could also clearly
see the lights of the ship on the horizon. Quartermaster Rowe ordered those
rowing to pull towards the light, which they did all night, ‘but seemed to get
no nearer to the lights’.
18
Back at the site of the sinking, Colonel Gracie spotted a wooden crate
floating near him, and attempted in vain to straddle it; each time he tried it
overturned, spilling him back into the water. Soon, he spotted Collapsible B
nearby, and swam over to its side. He found that there were already about a
dozen men standing on or clinging to the boat. Among them was Second
Officer Lightoller, who had already pulled himself aboard, and was standing
on the hull.
Nearly Unsurvivable
Expected Survival Time in Cold Water
(Conditions as they apply to the water temperature at the time Titanic sank indicated in
bold and with asterisk)
Water Temperature Exhaustion or Unconsciousness in Expected Survival Time
70-80° F (21-27° C) 3-12 hours 3 hours-indefinitely
60-70° F (16-21° C) 2-7 hours 2-40 hours
50-60° F (10-16° C) 1-2 hours 1-6 hours
40-50° F (4-10° C) 30-60 minutes 1-3 hours
32.5-40° F (0-4° C) 15-30 minutes 30-90 minutes
*<32° F (<0 C) *Under 15 minutes *Under 15-45 minutes
The frigid seas, which were only 28° Fahrenheit, were taking a gruesome toll. Clinically
speaking, submerged in such a hostile environment, most people could be expected to
become unconscious in as little as 15 minutes; average anticipated survival times would
only run from 15 to 45 minutes, although exceptions to this general rule of thumb are
possible.
Initial symptoms from being submerged in such icy water typically include panic and
shock, and can even cause instantaneous cardiac arrest. Breath is commonly driven from
the body upon contact with water that cold, forcing an involuntary breath to be taken.
Drowning is thus possible if a person lands face-first in the water. Next, total disorientation
sets in, which can last for 30 seconds or more after immersion before a person comes to
their senses and can more accurately comprehend their surroundings. Limbs are quickly
numbed to the point of uselessness, which makes swimming or climbing out of water
difficult without outside assistance. Within minutes, severe physical pain clouds rational
thought. Finally, once severe hypothermia sets in, unconsciousness and death can quickly
follow.
19
A death of this nature is not a peaceful way to go. The freezing water which those on
the ship were plunged into at 2:20 a.m. was a nearly unsurvivable environment.
As soon as the Second Officer was recognized, one of the crewmembers
on the boat shouted out, ‘We will all obey what the officer orders.’ When
Colonel Gracie tried to climb aboard, he was met by a ‘doubtful reception’
from some of those already on the craft. Finally, they helped to lift him from
the freezing water. Just then, another swimmer – who was already exhausted
from the cold – came alongside. Gracie gave the man a warmer reception than
he himself had received, pulling him up next to him. The man passed out facedown on the bottom of the boat for several hours.
20
Mess Steward Cecil Fitzpatrick had swum away from the starboard Boat
Deck near Collapsible A as the bow dove. He was ‘a strong swimmer,’ and
kept afloat in the icy sea for ‘quite twenty minutes’ before he climbed onto
Collapsible B. There, he spotted Second Officer Lightoller was already
aboard.21
William Mellors had been in the water for five minutes, and had to fight
his way through the maelstrom of panicking swimmers. A woman caught hold
of his coat collar, and begged him to save her. Mellors felt that he was
doomed anyway, and that the least he could do was try to keep both of them
afloat. After holding the woman up for about twenty minutes, Mellors’ hands
began to swell so badly from the cold water that they started to resemble ‘a
pair of miniature boxing gloves.’ He was having difficulty maintaining his
grip on her. By this time, the woman was almost unconscious, but when she
noticed Mellors losing his grip, she started panicking, clutching him around
the throat. She was not wearing a lifebelt, and in the struggle, both were
plunged underwater. When Mellors was out of breath to the point where he
felt his lungs were going to burst, he was finally able to break away and come
to the surface, gasping for air.
Mellors continued swimming, but no sooner had he begun than a seaman
caught hold of his leg and began holding on to him ‘like a leech’. Mellors’
limbs were so numb that he barely noticed until he was nearly dragged
underwater. He struck at the seaman. The man, hysterical from the cold and
panic, only laughed and continued his attempt to pull Mellors under. Mellors
next grabbed the seaman by his hair, plunging him underwater until he became
‘unsensible’. He released Mellors, who tried to swim away. The man
resurfaced, trying unsuccessfully to swim alongside Mellors. Suddenly, he
made a noise Mellors described as a horrible ‘rattle’, threw his hands up, and
died.22
Junior Marconi Operator Harold Bride was floating in the water close to
where the ship had sunk; he had been washed overboard with Collapsible B
at around 2:15 a.m. Initially, he had been stuck underneath the collapsible.
Somehow, he had gotten separated from the upturned boat, and had been
swimming ever since. Bride was so cold and exhausted that he felt like letting
himself sink. Suddenly, he saw the collapsible drifting nearby, and put all his
remaining strength into reaching it.
When he got alongside, he ‘was all done’, and was surprised to see that it
was the very same collapsible that he and the others had attempted to launch.
He rolled on to the cork fender of the boat, and lay there ‘not caring what
happened’. His feet became wedged between the slats and a man who sat on
them, wrenching them. Bride was distracted by the ‘terrible sight all around’
of people struggling in the water near the boat, and did not have the heart to
ask the man to move. By that point, the bottom of the collapsible was crowded
with men. As swimmers came alongside, ‘nobody gave them a hand’.
23
In the water, the floating wreckage and deck chairs that Chief Baker
Joughin and others had thrown overboard were providing refuge, albeit
temporary ones, for many of the people swimming in the water. However,
without being able to get the majority of one’s body out of the deadly cold
water, clinging to the debris was futile, and death still came swiftly.
About sixty feet from where Titanic sank, Saloon Steward Thomas
Whiteley, buoyed up by his lifebelt, managed to catch hold of a wooden
wardrobe that was floating nearby. Four other men held on to this same piece
of debris with him.
24 Similarly, Saloon Steward Harold Phillimore, who leapt
overboard just prior to the final plunge, clung to a piece of wreckage along
with another man.
25
As Titanic’s stern had risen into the air, Storekeepers Frank Prentice,
Michael Kieran, and Cyril Ricks had leapt overboard. Prentice landed safely
in the water, but Ricks did not. What happened to Kieran is unknown. At first,
Prentice found himself among the panicking masses, but as time went on, the
crowd began to thin out as the cold began to take its inexorable toll on those
in the water. Prentice found his friend Ricks floating nearby, badly injured,
and resolved to stay with him until the last. Prentice said Ricks ‘had hurt
himself, he’d hurt his legs. He’d dropped on something, and he didn’t say very
much. He was a great big fellow too, very good swimmer. And he died, and I
… seemed to be all by myself.’26
Some distance away, Collapsible A was drifting amid the wreckage. Its
damaged canvas sides were still down, and it was half-swamped with several
feet of water sloshing around within its bottom. Not only had the collapsible
been damaged in the attempt to get it down from the roof of the Officers’
Quarters, but despite his best efforts Fireman John Thompson had been
unsuccessful in getting the plug in place before the boat was washed
overboard. As a result, water was continuing to flood into it. Only the Kapokfilled fenders of the collapsible, as well as the Kapok in the boat’s bottom
structure, were keeping it buoyant.
27 As a result, the craft sat low in the water,
and was very unstable.
Within only a few minutes of the sinking, approximately fifteen to twenty
people had struggled aboard this boat, and were forced to stand knee deep in
the freezing water. Among these were First Class passenger Richard Norris
Williams and Third Class passenger Carl Jansson. John Thompson, struggling
back to a state of semi-consciousness, found himself lying in the water in the
bottom of Boat A. Someone had hauled him aboard while he was senseless.
28
Saloon Steward Edward Brown had never swum before in his life, and
had only been saved by his decision to wear a lifebelt. Spotting a black object
floating on the water in the distance, he awkwardly paddled toward it. Upon
arriving, he found that it was Collapsible A, the same boat he had helped cut
loose. He pulled himself aboard.29
Third Class passenger August Wennerström was then aboard Boat A, and
he saw people in the water all around, some even hanging from its sides. As
more and more clung to it, the unstable boat nearly capsized. The upset threw
several people, including Wennerström, back into the water. Already
dangerously chilled, he temporarily lost his senses, and when Wennerström
‘got back to myself and my memory’, he found himself floating interlocked
with three other people. When they began to go under, he somehow found the
edge of Collapsible A, and climbed back aboard.30
Others who climbed aboard at this time included Third Class passengers
Edvard Lindell and Rhoda Abbott. Mrs Abbott had gone into the sea with her
14-year-old son Eugene, but had become separated from him when she was
sucked below the surface. ‘After a time’, she came alongside Collapsible A
and begged someone to help her aboard. No one acted, but when the boat
upset, she was able to climb on, and stood in the boat to stay out of the water
in the bottom.
31
Around the same time, William Mellors had also spotted Collapsible A;
he managed to swim over to it and pulled himself in. Every time people tried
to climb in, the boat upset, and some of the occupants were thrown into the
water. Each time this ghastly cycle played out, the people grew weaker, and
each time there were fewer who were able to struggle back aboard.32
By the time George Rheims came alongside Collapsible A, the occupants
in the boat refused to let him come aboard, probably fearing that he would
cause the boat to tip again. Luckily, Rheims’ pleas for help persuaded them,
and he was hauled aboard. Wearing just underclothes, Rheims stood in the
boat, shaking with cold.33
Steward Alfred Theissinger had jumped from the ship with Steward
Siebert. Theissinger swam to ‘a raft [Boat A]on which a few men were
clinging’. He recalled:
A willing hand was extended to me and we picked up seventeen
others. A woman was among these and I must give her praise. I wish I
could remember her name. During those two dreary hours she laughed
and sang, cheering us. The water was up to our knees.
34
First Class passenger Peter Daly was floating on his back when he bumped
into the side of Collapsible A; he called for the men in it to give him a hand.
Fortunately, First Class passengers Richard Norris Williams and George
Rheims answered his call, and grabbing him by his lifebelt, pulled him
aboard.35 Once August Wennerström was back aboard, he saw his friend Elin
Lindell alongside in the water. The boat was overloaded that August could
only take her hand, trying to hold her out of the water. Edvard Lindell was
apparently unaware that his wife was by the boat.
36
Meanwhile, the crewmembers and occupants of the lifeboats floating not
far away were trying to get organized, and decide what to do. In Boat No. 10,
which was approximately 150 yards away from where the ship sank,
37 Able
Bodied Seamen Buley and Evans wanted to go back and pick up additional
people from the water. However their boat was close to its rated capacity,
with around 57 already aboard. Additionally, there were only three people in
the craft to row, and one of the men, a fireman, did not know how to pull an
oar. In order to assist with the rowing, Buley placed a steward at the tiller.
This freed Buley up to assist with the oars, but they were still in no position to
lend assistance to any of the victims in the water.
38
In Boat No. 8, the boat furthest from the site of the sinking, Able Bodied
Seaman Thomas Jones had put the Countess of Rothes in charge of the tiller.
She did an admirable job of keeping the boat on course, and remained at that
post through the night.
39 Stating his reasons for placing her at the tiller, Jones
said: ‘I was in command, but I had to row. I wanted someone at the tiller. And
I saw the way she was carrying herself, and I heard the quiet, determined way
she spoke to the others, and I knew she was more of a man than any we had on
board.’ Jones also had kind words to say for a different woman who was at
one of the oars all night, saying that ‘though I never learned her name, she was
helping every minute.’ Soon, the same woman suggested that they sing to keep
their spirits up; all agreed, and they started with ‘Pull for the Shore’.
40
Ever since being lowered away at 1:00 a.m., Jones had been following
Captain Smith’s parting order for Boat No. 8 to row towards the steamer to
the north. They could all clearly see two stationary masthead lights sitting
tantalizingly on the horizon. Bedroom Steward Alfred Crawford and First
Class passenger Ella White estimated the vessel was about 10 miles away.
41
Despite their best efforts, however, they did not appear to be making any
significant headway toward it. When the ladies in the boat asked if they were
getting any nearer, Jones said no; feeling that their efforts were futile, he had
everyone lay on their oars.
42
While the passengers in Boat No. 8 praised Jones and his conduct, several
of its other crewmembers were criticized for their behavior, or for being
inexperienced with rowing. The women had to assist them in their efforts. One
crewmember had attempted to row without the oar in the oarlock. When First
Class passenger Ella White asked him why he didn’t put it in the oarlock, he
responded: ‘Do you put it in that hole?’ Then he admitted he had never held an
oar before. At least one other crewmember also confessed the same level of
inexperience.
The tension was palpable. Many of the women felt that these
inexperienced hands had boarded the boat under false pretenses, since they
were expected to row. Additionally, not all of the crewmen took kindly to the
orders and advice Jones was giving them, in spite of the fact that he was
helping them row. Things devolved to the point that at least one crewman
snapped at Jones: ‘If you don’t stop talking through that hole in your face there
will be one less in the boat.’43
It is thus no surprise that – between the
generally southerly setting current in the area and the lack of trained oarsmen
– making any substantial progress towards the steamer on the horizon was
proving difficult.
44
The cries from the water persisted, drifting across the water and reaching
the ears of those in Boat No. 8. As it held just 25 occupants, and was making
little progress toward the steamer, someone urged Jones to return to the site of
the sinking. Jones agreed, saying that he wanted to ‘see what we could do for
the others’. He actually had the boat turned around and headed back before
some of the women in the boat got frightened, at which point he relented.
Jones told them, ‘ladies, if any of us are saved, remember, I wanted to go
back. I would rather drown with them than leave them.’ He then had them
resume their efforts to reach the steamer, just as Captain Smith had ordered
them.
45
In Boat No. 6, several women assisted Major Peuchen and Lookout Fleet
in rowing, owing to the inadequate number of crewmembers manning the boat.
First Class passenger Margaret Brown was one of the women who pitched in,
having grabbed an oar as soon as the boat reached the water. Looking over the
side of the boat, she noted that the sea was ‘smooth as glass’.
Quartermaster Hichens continued to demonstrate questionable conduct. As
the occupants of No. 6 had difficulty rowing, the boat had not gotten far away
from where Titanic went under. The cries for help were still loud, so the
women in the boat, which had just 23 seats occupied, began to plead with the
Quartermaster to return and rescue some people from the water. Hichens
admonished them, using the excuse that they did not have enough oarsmen,
graphically describing how the ‘frantic drowning victims would grapple the
side of the boat and capsize it’.
The Quartermaster was unyielding, and refused to go back, saying that
there were only a ‘lot of stiffs there’. Needless to say, the women in the boat
resented this comment greatly, for many of them had left loved ones aboard the
ship. Major Peuchen told them: ‘It is no use you arguing with that man, at all.
It is best not to discuss matters with him.’ Eventually, the occupants of the
boat gave up on the idea, and tried pulling for the lights of the steamer on the
horizon instead, although they did not make much progress.
46
During this time, Hichens was sitting at the tiller ‘shivering like an aspen’.
He spouted a ‘tirade of awful forebodings’, reminding those in the boat that
they were ‘hundreds of miles from land, without water, without food, without
protection against the cold’, and that if a storm came up, they would be
helpless. He told them that they were facing death by starvation or drowning.
Nobody in the boat responded.
One of the ladies in the boat had a flask of brandy, and when Hichens saw
it, he demanded that she give it to him, ‘saying that he was frozen’. He was
denied the brandy; instead, two of the women wrapped what steamer blankets
they had in the boat around the Quartermaster’s shoulders and legs, until he
looked ‘as snug as a bug in a rug’. Hichens was then asked to relieve one of
the people struggling at the oars, but he refused. Instead he chose to remain at
the tiller and critique the technique of those who were doing the physical
labor, shouting things such as: ‘Here, you fellow on the starboard side, your
oar is not being put in the water at the right angle.’47
In Boat No. 5, the 36 occupants continued to hear ‘a lot of cries and a
continuous yelling and moaning’ from the water.
48 First Class passenger Anna
Warren, whose husband had been left behind on the ship, was momentarily
distracted by the surreal view over the edge of the lifeboat: ‘The sea was like
glass, so smooth the stars were clearly reflected.’ The beauty of this must
have contrasted harshly with the horror of the cries for help.49
Boat No. 5 was just 200–300 yards50
from where the ship sank when
Third Officer Pitman said: ‘Now men, we will pull towards the wreck.’ He
noted that they ‘may be able to pick up a few more.’ He turned the boat around
to go in the directions of the cries, but the passengers immediately began
protesting; they said it was a ‘mad idea’, that if they went back the boat would
be swamped, and that any attempt to do so would be ‘foolish’.
51
Two ladies shouted out: ‘Appeal to the officer not to go back. Why should
we lose all of our lives in a useless attempt to save others from the ship?’
52
Nearly everyone in the boat – or at least the vocal majority – agreed, and
Pitman was dissuaded from returning. Quartermaster Olliver did not express
his opinion on the matter at the time. Later on, however, he said that while he
was not afraid to return to rescue more passengers, he believed that doing so
‘would have been endangering the lives of the people we had in the boat
already’.
53
Aboard No. 5, First Class passenger Karl Behr was rubbing Helen
Newsom’s wet stocking feet to keep them warm when someone nudged him.
Behr straightened up, and saw the man next to him surreptitiously holding a
nickel-plated revolver in his hand. The man whispered in Behr’s ear: ‘Should
the worst come to the worst, you can use this revolver for your wife, after my
wife and I have finished with it.’ The calm way in which the man said this
shocked Behr, and he didn’t know how to respond other than to politely thank
him.
54
In Boat No. 3, which had gotten a quarter of a mile away from Titanic
before she sank, Able Bodied Seaman George Moore made no efforts to go
back at all, despite having only about 32 people aboard. He felt that there was
a danger of the boat being swamped, and believed that at the distance they
were away from the wreck, by the time they rowed back, their efforts would
have been for naught. He later said: ‘I do not think anybody could live much
more than 10 minutes in that cold water.’55
In Boat No. 12, which was loaded with 42 people, Able Bodied Seaman
Poingdestre pulled back towards the sounds of the screams from the water.
Since they had room to take on more people, nobody in his boat objected.
After pulling for about 15 minutes, all they found were ‘a couple of hundred
deck chairs’ floating in the water. There were only two seamen aboard, and
both had to do the majority of the rowing. Owing to this, they were unable to
get any closer than 100 yards from the cries in the water, and Poingdestre
reluctantly abandoned his efforts. He began calling out, hoping to hail any
other lifeboats that were in the vicinity.
56
In the two boats that had the fewest people aboard, Boats Nos 1 and 2,
similar discussions were playing out. In No. 1, Leading Fireman Charles
Hendrickson was frustrated that when he proposed going back to rescue
people from the water, the passengers objected. They had initially rowed
toward the lights of the steamer on the horizon before Titanic sank, but had
then given up and lain on their oars. There were screams all around them less
than 200 yards away. Because of this, Hendrickson was very anxious to return
and save more lives. Lady Duff Gordon expressed her fear that if they did so,
the boat would be swamped, and said she didn’t want to return. Rather than
try to instill courage in his wife, Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon supported what she
said, and also objected to going back.
Neither Lookout George Symons – who was in charge of the boat – nor the
boat’s other crewmembers said anything at all to back up their shipmate. This
was in spite of the fact that their boat could have held 28 more people.
Hendrickson later said that ‘they would not listen to me,’ and while he
understood the risk involved, he thought that returning was the right thing to
do. Able Bodied Seaman Horswill did not hear Symons propose going back,
or in fact, give any other order that night. Horswill felt that ‘it was inhuman’
not to rescue anyone from the water, but did not feel it was his place to say so,
and so he never spoke up.57
In Boat No. 2, Fourth Officer Boxhall periodically lit green flares.
Holding them up, they pierced through a darkness which was otherwise only
broken by the brilliant starlight. He had taken a box of the flares from the
Bridge and put them in the boat during the loading, feeling that they would
help keep all of the lifeboats together once they were afloat. More than once
during the night, people were fooled into thinking these flares were an
approaching ship. Sadly, when he had lit the first flare, the cries from the
water got even louder, probably because the people struggling for their lives
had mistaken the light for a rescue ship.
Trimmer Thomas Patrick Dillon (left) and Leading Fireman Charles Hendrickson (right).
Due to a lack of crewmembers to row, Boxhall had placed First Class
passenger Mahala Douglas in charge of the tiller. From there she steered the
craft, carefully following Boxhall’s directions. With the cries from the water
continuing, the Fourth Officer suggested to Able Bodied Seaman Frank
Osman, the only seaman in the boat, that they go back, but ultimately he
‘decided it was unwise to do so’. When Boxhall raised this idea, the women
in the boat had also become very nervous. So despite the fact that the boat
could hold 23 additional occupants, Boxhall had them pull as far away as
possible, ‘so that the women would not see and cause a panic’.
58
 From time to
time, the occupants in the boat could hear water lapping against the base of
icebergs nearby, and when they were all quiet, Boxhall told them ‘listen’.
59
While the decision not to return may have seemed reasonable to most of
the occupants of the lifeboats, everything looked very different to those on one
of the half-swamped collapsibles. On top of Collapsible B, First Class
passenger Jack Thayer lamented the fact that none of the lifeboats were
coming back to rescue anyone from the water. Later, he expressed the
following thoughts about the matter: ‘The partially filled lifeboats standing by,
only a few hundred yards away never came back. Why on earth they did not
come back is a mystery. How could any human being fail to heed those
cries?’
60
Elsewhere, the occupants of Boat No. 4 were mercifully spared the
decision of whether or not to rescue anyone from the water. Their boat, just
200 yards from Titanic when she sank, was well within sight of people
standing on Titanic’s deck during her final moments.
61 Because of this,
several had dropped down falls or jumped overboard, reached the boat, and
were quickly plucked from the water by No. 4’s crew members.
62
Amongst those who boarded Boat No. 4 in this fashion were Greasers
Frederick Scott and Thomas Ranger. Both men had slid down an aft set of
lifeboat falls when Boat No. 4 was still alongside Titanic, before it had begun
to move further away from the dying ship. Scott had dropped into the water,
and was there for just ‘four to five minutes’ before being pulled aboard;63
Ranger had dropped down the falls into the boat without even getting wet.
64
Lamp Trimmer Hemming swam to this boat just before Titanic sank, but
after it had begun rowing away from the ship’s side. Hemming was not
wearing a lifebelt, and had swum furiously through the frigid water after
dropping down a set of falls. Arriving alongside, he clung to one of the boat’s
lifelines. Pulling his head above the gunwale, he saw his friend, Storekeeper
Jack Foley, standing in the boat. ‘Give us a hand in, Jack,’ he said. Foley
asked ‘Is that you, Sam?’ Hemming replied in the affirmative, and was quickly
hauled aboard.65
After Titanic had disappeared below the surface, Quartermaster Perkis
ordered No. 4 rowed back towards the cries in the water. They were able to
rescue seven or eight additional men,
66 among them Greaser Alfred White,
67
Able Bodied Seaman William Lyons,
68 Trimmer Thomas Dillon,
69 Bedroom
Stewards Sidney Siebert
70 and Andrew Cunningham71 – who had left the ship
together – as well as Storekeeper Frank Prentice,
72 and possibly one or two
passengers.
After his friend Ricks had died, Prentice had swum away, and eventually
found himself alone. He noticed that the ‘cries [for] help, prayers and all
subsided, and everything was quiet.’73 By the time Boat No. 4 picked him up,
there were few cries coming from the water nearby. The frigid temperature of
the sea was beginning to claim more and more people. Things were becoming
silent and eerily calm in the nearly pitch-black night.
Trimmer Dillon had been in the sea for approximately 20 minutes, and had
seen ‘about one thousand people in the water’ during his swim to Boat No. 4.
By the time he reached it, he was exhausted. Right after being pulled aboard,
Dillon fell unconscious, clearly suffering from hypothermia.
74 The icy water
was so deadly that despite having been in the water for less than half an hour,
at least two of the men pulled into the boat later died, including Seaman
Lyons, and Bedroom Steward Siebert.
75 Lyons and Siebert had lain down in
the stern of the boat after being pulled aboard, and never woke up. First Class
passenger Emily Ryerson’s recollections were even more disturbing. She
noticed that some of the men who had been pulled from the water ‘were
raving and delirious most of the time’ from the cold.76
Later, when Dillon finally came to, he ‘was not properly right’. This was
because he found himself in the bottom of the boat with two dead bodies –
those of Seaman Lyons and a man who he thought was a passenger – lying on
top of him.
77 One of the crewmembers who had been pulled aboard, Frank
Prentice, took a bottle of brandy from his pocket, and attempted to take a drink
of it for its warming sensation. Quartermaster Perkis promptly took it away
and threw it overboard, then tossed the man into the bottom of the boat and
covered him with a blanket.
78
In the water, Saloon Steward Harold Phillimore was still lying on top of a
piece of floating wreckage. The man hanging on alongside him had grown
steadily weaker. Finally the man had said, ‘What a night’, rolled off into the
water, and died.79 Elsewhere, Thomas Whiteley was still clinging to the
wardrobe that had proven to be a temporary sanctuary for him, shivering
uncontrollably. He had kept his circulation going by beating his hands and feet
in a steady motion. As time went on, the four other men sharing the wardrobe
slowly dropped off, one by one, and soon Whiteley was alone.
80 Seeing a
white object in the water nearby, Whiteley cast off and swam for it.
The object turned out to be the upturned Collapsible B, which now had
over 30 people standing on top of or clinging to it. When Whiteley tried to
climb aboard, Second Officer Lightoller refused to let him, saying ‘It’s thirtyone lives against yours. You can’t come aboard. There’s not room.’ Whiteley
pleaded with them in vain; then, in desperation, he found himself praying that
somebody might die, so that he could take their place. Ashamed of this thought
after the sinking, Whiteley explained his feelings, saying that ‘it was only
human’ given the circumstances. Soon, someone did die and was rolled off the
raft; Whiteley was let aboard.81
Eugene Daly, shivering and with his hands blue-tinged and cramping, was
still half in the water and half on Collapsible B; his soaked overcoat was
preserving some of his body heat, but it was also weighing him down. When
another person passed away and dropped into the water, Daly was hauled
fully aboard.82
As the collapsible got even more overloaded, its occupants feared it
would sink, and they had good reason to worry as it sank lower and lower
under the weight. Harold Bride lay on the bottom of the boat; his feet, which
were now sitting two feet under water, were still being jammed against the
cork fender by the man sitting on top of them. First Class passenger Jack
Thayer was kneeling behind Bride, barely able to maintain his hold on the
hull. Another man clung to Thayer, kneeling on his legs and with his hands on
the 17-year-old’s shoulders; in turn, a third man was clinging to the person
Thayer was forced to support. Nobody on the boat moved for fear of pitching
everyone into the sea.
83
Fireman Harry Senior met an even harsher reception than Whiteley did
when he tried to climb aboard Collapsible B: ‘I tried to board her, but some
chap hit me over the head with an oar. There were too many in [sic, on] her. I
got around the other side of the boat and climbed in.’ Right after Senior
boarded, another man was hauled aboard, but he ‘died just after he was pulled
over the side’. Senior said: ‘I saw any amount of drowning and dead around
us.’84
Chief Baker Joughin had been swimming around since riding the stern
down into the sea. Supported by his lifebelt, he paddled alongside
Collapsible B; there he saw the occupants standing on top of the boat, clinging
to each other’s shoulders to keep their balance. When Joughin tried to climb
on, he was pushed off. However, he wisely stayed as close as he could to the
boat, and eventually went around to the other side. Once there, Entrée Cook
Isaac Maynard recognized him, and offered Joughin his hand. The baker
grabbed a hold of his hand and hung on to it; he also held on to the side of the
boat, but his legs and feet remained in the water.
85
The men began using the remaining oars and wooden planks as paddles, in
an attempt to propel the upturned boat away from the remaining swimmers in
the water. One man with a powerful voice came alongside, encouraging the
men, saying: ‘Hello boys, keep calm, boys.’ Then he asked for assistance.
When told that one more aboard might sink them all, the man, despite being in
such a vulnerable state, bravely responded: ‘All right, boys; good luck and
God bless you.’ Then he swam along for about two minutes before becoming
still in the water.
86
 Some believed that this man was Captain Smith.
87
Meanwhile, the occupants of Collapsible A were experiencing a similar
situation. With about twenty people aboard the swamped boat, it wallowed
through the water, and the Kapok was barely keeping the craft afloat. George
Rheims stood in his underclothes, ‘shaking with cold.’ His suffering was so
intense that on two occasions, he had thought of throwing himself into the
water and ending things. Both times, thoughts of his wife Mary brought him
back to his senses. The occupants ‘had to push back about 10 poor people
who wanted to climb aboard’.
88
August Wennerström had been holding onto Elin Lindell’s hand for about
half an hour when he finally lost his grip on her. She had apparently passed
away without him noticing, and immediately sank ‘down under the water to
her ocean grave’. Wennerström reluctantly turned to her husband Edvard to
tell him the news, and saw that his appearance had changed from that of a 36-
year-old man, to ‘something like 90 or 100’. His face had sunk in, his
mustache was gray from frost, and his eyes were open, but fixed and
unmoving. He lay in the bottom of the boat, with water up to his chest, and
never responded or said a word. Wennerström then realized that he too had
passed away.
89
Boat No. 4 had already rescued a handful of men from the water; then
Quartermaster Perkis and the other occupants in the boat rowed about, trying
to find anyone else nearby. He was amazed that throughout the sinking, the
crewmembers had ‘conducted themselves the same as they would if it were an
ordinary everyday occurrence’.
90 Soon, they sighted a light from another
lifeboat in the water.
91 This boat proved to be No. 12, and as they began
making for it, Able Bodied Seaman Poingdestre started hailing them. The
occupants in No. 4 responded, and Poingdestre and Perkis had the two boats
tie together.
92
Third Class passengers Edvard and Elin Lindell.
Fireman Harry Senior.
Nearby, several of the women in Boat No. 14 began to sob, realizing that a
reunion with the husbands they had left on the ship was unlikely. Second Class
passenger Esther Hart was one of those who reached this conclusion: ‘I knew
… that I had seen the last of my Ben [Benjamin Hart], and that I had lost the
best and truest friend, the kindest and most thoughtful husband that ever
woman had.’
Fifth Officer Lowe, a sailor through and through, attempted to console the
women in the boat; unfortunately, it came off in a rather rough fashion: ‘Don’t
cry, please don’t cry,’ he said. ‘You’ll have something else to do than cry;
some of you will have to handle the oars. For God’s sake stop crying. If I had
not the responsibility of looking after you I would put a bullet through my
brain.’93 Continuing, Lowe suggested that the occupants in the boat should
sing to get their minds off things, saying: ‘A good song to sing would be,
“Throw Out the Life Line”. ’ He also suggested: ‘I think the best thing for you
women to do is to take a nap.’94
After Boat No. 14 had lowered away from Titanic, Lowe had the
occupants row approximately 150 yards away from the ship. Then he had
them stop and lay on the oars. He wanted to remain close enough to the scene
of the wreck to rescue people from the water if they had the opportunity.
However, his boat was rather full. Seeing several other lifeboats nearby, he
hailed them. Finding no officer in any of them, Lowe told them: ‘All right
consider the whole of you are under my orders; remain with me.’ An idea was
forming in his mind, and he explained that if the boats ‘are tied together and
keep all together, if there is any passing steamer they will see a large object
like that on the water quicker than they would a small one.’ Soon he had
herded together Boat No. 10 and Collapsible D, as well as Boats Nos 4 and
12, tying them all up to his own. Doing so formed a sort of mini flotilla.
95
In Boat No. 10, one of the crewmembers explained to Imanita Shelley that
this was being done simply for ‘safety’s sake’. She felt that the boats sticking
together was a good idea. However, she was concerned that the boats could
be damaged as, despite the calm sea, their hulls kept bumping into each other,
and there was also a lot of wreckage around them in the water.
96
As soon as the boats were assembled, Lowe asked if there were any
seamen present. When the answer was yes, the Fifth Officer said: ‘All right;
you will have to distribute these passengers [in No. 14] among these boats.
Tie them all together and come into my boat to go over into the wreckage and
pick up anyone that is alive there.’97 Lowe wanted to go rescue any survivors,
but was waiting to do so ‘until it quieted down’, and ‘until the drowning
people had thinned out’. The Fifth Officer felt that to row back into a crowd
of struggling people in the water would have been ‘suicidal’, believing that
‘the whole lot of us would have been swamped and then nobody would have
been saved.’98 With the cries from those in the water continuing, some of the
women in the boat implored Lowe to go back and rescue people right away.
Lowe told them: ‘You ought to be damn glad you are here and have got your
own life.’99
At around 3:00 a.m., the twelve occupants of Boat No. 1 saw a light on the
water, and had begun rowing towards it. With the cries for help having largely
ceased by then, the realization of what had happened was finally beginning to
set in. With poor timing, Lady Duff Gordon turned to her secretary Laura
Francatelli and said: ‘There is your beautiful nightdress, gone.’
Fireman Robert Pusey rebuked her, saying, ‘Never mind about your
nightdress madam, as long as you have got your life.’ He then turned to Sir
Cosmo, saying: ‘I suppose you have lost everything?’
Sir Cosmo said: ‘Yes.’
The fireman responded: ‘But you can get some more?’
‘Yes,’ the wealthy sportsman acknowledged.
Pusey then said: ‘Well, we have lost our kits and the company won’t give
us anymore, and what is more our pay stops from tonight. All they will do is
send us back to London.’
Sir Cosmo said to them: ‘You fellows need not worry about that; I will
give you a fiver [£5 sterling draft] each to start a new kit.’
Later, this incident gave rise to false rumors that the Duff Gordons had
bribed the crewmembers not to return to the site of the wreck to rescue
swimmers. Although the conversation, in retrospect, looked very bad, this
offer does not appear to have been a direct bribe.
100
Back at the flotilla of lifeboats, Fifth Officer Lowe had been busy
transferring approximately 33 people out of Boat No. 14 into the other boats.
He wanted to make more room in his boat so that he could return to the site of
the sinking without jeopardizing the lives of passengers. Around twelve
people were transferred to Collapsible D, while No. 4 received ten
additional occupants, and No. 12 picked up the remaining eleven. After the
transfers were complete, Collapsible D had about 35 occupants aboard, Boat
No. 4 had approximately 48, and Boat No. 12 had about 53. It does not appear
as if any passengers were transferred into Boat No. 10, which was already
rather heavily loaded with 57 persons.
101
While the passengers from No. 14 were being distributed among the other
boats, Lowe used some very emphatic language, cursing regularly; he was
obviously in a hurry. When First Class passenger Daisy Minahan went to
climb into another boat, he yelled: ‘Jump, God damn you, jump.’ He had been
so ‘blasphemous’ that a few of the women wondered whether he was under
the influence of alcohol.
102
In fact, however, Lowe was a teetotaler.
103
It
seems probable that some of the society women in his care were simply
unaccustomed to hearing the common language of sailors, and thus took
particular offense with him.
While Minahan had negative things to say about the Fifth Officer, other
women in the boat were very impressed with his conduct and work; included
among the latter group was First Class passenger Sara Compton. She said that
‘Mr Lowe’s manly bearing gave us all confidence … [and] he seems to me to
personify the best traditions of the British sailor.’104
During the transfer process, Lowe found one woman with a shawl over
her face who seemed to be in too much of a hurry to get in the other boat.
Suspicious, Lowe ripped the shawl away, and discovered that the woman was
in fact a man, whom he believed to be an ‘Italian’. So disgusted that he
couldn’t speak, Lowe caught hold of the man, and tossed him into the other
boat.
105
By 3:20 a.m., with his passengers transferred out and nearly all the cries
from the water subsided, Lowe decided it was safe to make a rescue
attempt.
106 The Fifth Officer took on additional crewmembers until he had
about eight or nine men in the boat, himself included;107 all were prepared to
go back to the wreck site to look for survivors. The other men aboard
included Able Bodied Seamen Buley,
108 Evans,
109 and Scarrott,
110 Saloon
Steward George Crowe,
111 Bathroom Steward Frank Morris,
112 Steward
Alfred Pugh,
113 Leading Fireman Thomas Threlfall,
114 and Second Class
passenger Charles Williams,
115 who volunteered to stay in No. 14 to help
row. Lowe ordered the other boats in the flotilla to lie on their oars and stick
together, and then he steered No. 14 back towards the wreck. Evans and Buley
were transferred from Boat No. 10, which had 55 people aboard after their
departure.
Once Boat No. 14 reached the disaster site, the men were confronted with
a horrific sight; it was immediately clear that they had waited too long to
return. Among all the floating debris in the still water, there were literally
hundreds of bodies around them, suspended by their lifejackets. Some had
their heads laid back, while others had their faces in the water. All was quiet
and still. There were so many bodies that they could not be counted. The
water was so thick with them that it proved difficult just to row. Evans could
not even bring himself to look over the side for fear that he was going to break
down. As they continued their search, Buley and the others reached over the
gunwale and turned over several of the people to see if any were alive. All of
them were dead, and Buley said that it ‘looked as though none of them were
drowned. They looked as though they were frozen.’116
Suddenly, the men heard moaning. Without anything other than starlight to
guide them,
117
they pushed through the flotsam and bodies, rowing towards the
source of the noise. Soon they discovered a passenger who was still alive,
First Class passenger William Hoyt of New York. He was ‘a large, fleshy
man’, and it took the efforts of everyone aboard to haul him into the boat. Hoyt
was bleeding from his mouth and from his nose, so Lowe propped him up in
the stern. The men took his collar off and loosened his shirt to help him
breathe, and a steward moved his limbs and chafed his arms, but to no avail.
Sadly, Hoyt was too far gone, and never recovered. He died shortly after
being taken aboard.118
First Class passenger William Hoyt
Going further into the wreckage, the men in No. 14 heard a voice calling
for help. They spotted a man kneeling on a piece of wreckage that looked like
a staircase. He looked ‘as if he was praying, and at the same time he was
calling for help’. Despite being just twenty yards away, it took the men in
Boat No. 14 nearly half an hour to get close enough to rescue him. The bodies
in the water were so thick that they could not row, and they had to push the
deceased out of the way in order to force their way to him. When they got
close enough, Steward Alfred Pugh extended an oar to the man, who turned
out to be Saloon Steward Phillimore. Phillimore grasped the oar long enough
to be pulled to the side of the boat, but his hands were so numb that he had to
be hauled aboard by his lifebelt. In his own words, he felt ‘frozen stiff’.
119
Homing in on the last of the shouts, the men in No. 14 were able to find
one more survivor, Third Class passenger Fang Lang of Hong Kong. Lang was
a sailor with the Donaldson Line, and he was extremely fortunate; he had
managed to find and then climb on top of a sideboard or table which had kept
him largely out of the water. After being taken into the boat he quickly
recovered; he even went to work at rowing, in order to keep warm.
120 Fifth
Officer Lowe and the other men continued shouting out and searching for
survivors, but in vain. As the occupants of No. 14 began rowing away, Able
Bodied Seaman Scarrott noticed how all of the bodies they passed seemed to
have perished from cold, as their limbs were all cramped up. Describing their
departure from the area, he said: ‘As we left that awful scene we gave way to
tears. It was enough to break the stoutest heart.’121
Meanwhile, in Boat No. 7, several of the occupants began yelling out,
hoping to attract the attention of the other boats. Soon, Third Officer Pitman in
No. 5 saw No. 7 approaching and hailed it. He had the two boats lashed
together in order to be more visible to a rescue ship if one ‘hove in sight
before daylight’, as well as for stability. The Third Officer and the other
crewmembers transferred about six people from Boat No. 5 into Boat No. 7 to
‘even them up a bit.’ After the transfers, No. 5 had approximately 30 people
in it, while No. 7 had 34.122
Around that time, First Class passenger Alfred Nourney, sitting in Boat
No. 7, saw one of the green flares that Boxhall was periodically sending up
from Boat No. 2. Thinking it was a rescue ship, he fired off all the cartridges
in his revolver into the air, hoping to attract their attention.
Third Officer Pitman shouted over to him: ‘You had better save all your
revolver shots, you had better save all your matches, and save everything. It
may be the means of saving your life.’123
In Boat No. 6, Quartermaster Hichens had a similar idea to that which
Pitman and Lowe had. As morning was drawing close, another boat was
rowing along nearby. Hichens raised his voice and shouted for them to pull
alongside, and to tie up with his boat. The other boat, which turned out to be
No. 16, immediately obeyed Hichens’ direction. Seeing that No. 16 had more
crewmembers to row than No. 6 did, they asked: ‘Surely you can spare us one
man, if you have so many.’
Master-at-Arms Joseph A. Bailey accordingly sent over a fireman to help
row. This fireman was covered in coal dust and dressed in a thin set of work
jumpers. Margaret Brown thus took her sable stole and wrapped it around his
legs to help keep him warm. The two boats remained lashed together for about
fifteen minutes, and Hichens had them lay on the oars. The boats knocked
together, and at Major Peuchen’s suggestion, lifebelts were put in between the
boats to cushion them.
After this, Hichens resigned the helm, and settled down to rest. One
person in their boat was a boy with an arm injury who was physically unable
to row, and the occupants suggested that in light of this, he be allowed to take
control of the tiller. They also suggested that the two boats be cut loose from
one another, and asked that Hichens help them row. The Quartermaster
refused, even after several of the women in the boat tried to goad him into
action.
The passengers in the boat wanted to resume rowing in order to keep their
circulation going and stay warm, but Hichens was adamantly against it. When
Margaret Brown told a passenger, who was clothed only in pajamas, to go
ahead and cut the two boats loose anyway, Hichens moved to prevent it. At
this, Margaret Brown told the Quartermaster that if he did, he would be
thrown overboard. Seeing how angry she was, someone laid a hand on her
shoulder to calm her down, but her threat had worked: Hichens was said to be
so paralyzed with fright that had she moved in his direction, ‘he would have
tumbled into the sea’.
Hichens spoke so uncivilly to the women in the boat during this period
that the fireman who transferred over exclaimed in a thick cockney accent: ‘Oi
sy, don’t you know you are talking to a lidy?’
Hichens responded: ‘I know who I am speaking to, and I am commanding
this boat.’
Despite this verbal assault, Mrs Brown’s chastisement had temporarily
worked. With the two boats separated, the occupants of No. 6, including
Margaret Brown, began rowing again.
124
Now that the screams of those in the water had ended, an eerie quiet
settled over those in the lifeboats, a silence broken only by the occasional
remark, or the sobs of those who were beginning to realize the awful reality of
what had happened. In heavily-loaded Boat No. 15, several women ‘wept and
moaned’.
Besides the emotional impact of the disaster, many of those in the boats
were also beginning to feel the physical strain of the events. Bertha Mulvihill
began to fully notice the effects of her rib and back injuries, and there was
nothing more that Maggie Daly or anyone else in the boat could do to assist
her. Bertha felt worse and worse as morning approached; every breath hurt.
Feeling faint, she leaned over the gunwale of the boat, with her hair dangling
into the water. By morning, strands of her hair had frozen together.
125
In Boat
No. 10, Lutie Parrish was also suffering from injuries to her leg and ankle
where the man had landed on top of her during the lowering of the boat.
Imanita Shelley tried to keep her mother comfortable, but the swelling had
increased, and was making her uncomfortable.
126
The stars were still shining brilliantly, but as it got closer and closer to
dawn, a breeze began to pick up, and the sea, which had been smooth as glass,
began to develop a swell. The flotilla that Lowe had assembled earlier had
begun to separate. In Collapsible D, Quartermaster Bright and the other
occupants were having difficulty rowing, because they lacked crewmen to
pull the oars. Despite being chilled to the bone from jumping into the water
before he was pulled into Collapsible D, Frederick Hoyt sat next to Chief
Second Class Steward Hardy, dutifully helping to row.
127
Not far away, sometime between 3:30 and 4:00 in the morning, those in
Boat No. 14 discontinued their search for survivors. As they rowed away,
they continued their looking, but found nothing. With the first signs of morning
just beginning to show on the horizon, Lowe felt ‘quite satisfied that I had a
real good look around, and that there was nothing left’. Just then, they sighted
the glow of lights on the horizon, which looked to be from a steamer; this
brought a great sense of relief.
128
With the breeze continuing to pick up, Lowe and the crewmembers erected
the sail in No. 14, and soon were ‘bowling along very nicely’ at several
knots. In a testament to his skills as a sailor, Lowe was the only crewmember
to assemble and utilize his lifeboat’s sail.
As Boat No. 14 came across Collapsible D, Lowe felt that it looked
‘sorry’, and saw they were having trouble rowing through the waves. He
sailed down to the collapsible, where he found Quartermaster Bright in
command. Lowe had the two boats hooked together, and took her in tow,
continuing to sail along as the sky began to lighten.
129
* * * * *
The Cunard liner Carpathia had raced through the night toward the distress
coordinates, steaming as fast as possible through the darkness. At around 2:40
a.m., Rostron saw a green signal flare about half a point on the port bow; he
remarked that Titanic must still be afloat, since the Carpathia was still a long
way from the distress coordinates, and the flare seemed to be high up on the
horizon. However, that hope soon began to fade.
Within just a few minutes, at 2:45 a.m., there were more pressing things to
occupy Rostron’s mind. An iceberg loomed up about a point on the port bow;
Rostron spotted it by the reflection of a star off its face, and had to port the
Carpathia to keep it clear of the ice. He thus narrowly avoided the same fate
that had befallen Titanic. Knowing that Titanic had struck ice, Rostron had
posted additional lookouts on the bow, and everyone kept a sharp watch.
Beginning at 2:45 a.m., Rostron also had his crewmen fire off rockets and
company signals every 15 minutes, to reassure Titanic that they were coming.
An hour later, at 3:45 a.m., Rostron was informed that his long list of orders
had been carried out, and that everything was in a state of readiness for the
rescue attempt.
130
On the Bridge of the small vessel, as the clock ticked on with no sign of
the stricken liner, Captain Arthur Rostron had begun to lose hope. It was 3:30
a.m., and no wireless signals had been heard from Titanic in well over an
hour. As they got closer and closer to the distress coordinates, they should
have seen something of her; yet they could detect no sign of Titanic.
* * * * *
Around this time, people in Titanic’s lifeboats saw a low-lying flash of light
on the southern horizon. In Boat No. 6, Second Cashier Mabel Martin – who
was one of the women helping to row – exclaimed: ‘There is a flash of
lightning.’
Quartermaster Hichens disagreed, saying: ‘It is a falling star.’ Soon, like
the men in Boat No. 14, Hichens saw a glow of light begin to pierce the
horizon, and he became convinced that it was a ship.131 On Collapsible B,
‘shortly before four o’clock,’ Jack Thayer saw the masthead light of the
steamer come over the horizon, to which they all ‘gave a thankful cheer’.
Unfortunately, their ordeal was not yet over.
132
In Collapsible A, August Wennerström scanned the horizon, which was
becoming gray, followed by orange, as dawn approached. He saw a dim light,
and rejoiced to discern that it was a steamer. A moment later, the light was no
longer visible to them. For one man in the boat who was barely clinging to
life, this disappointment seemed to be too much: ‘We will not be saved, we
must die here,’ he exclaimed. Less than a minute later he expired, and his
body was rolled out to lighten the boat. Soon, the light on the horizon became
visible again; first one masthead light appeared, followed by a second, and
later, a green sidelight. George Rheims believed he ‘saw her lights probably
at four o’clock in the morning.’133
In Boat No. 15, the waves were beginning to raise havoc on the
overloaded boat when the occupants noticed the steamer approaching. Bertha
Mulvihill described the scene:
It was awfully cold. The water every once in a while slapped up over
the bow of the boat and covered us with spray. None of us had more
than nightclothes, with a scant covering over those … Dawn was just
breaking when I saw a light off in the distance. I spoke to the nearest
sailor about it, and asked if it possibly could be a vessel coming to
help us. He said it must be a ship’s light, but someone spoke up and
said it was probably a boat’s light. Then two big green [sic] lights
broke through … [and] we knew it was a ship coming to rescue us. We
cheered and cheered and cheered. Some cried. I just sat still and
offered up a little prayer.
134
* * * * *
Back on board the Carpathia, by 4:00 a.m., Captain Rostron determined that
he had to be ‘somewhere in the vicinity’ of the distress coordinates, and
almost up to where they had seen the green signal flares. As a result, he
ordered the engines stopped. Rostron was unaware that the distress
coordinates worked up by Fourth Officer Boxhall, and transmitted to the
Carpathia earlier that night, had been wrong; they indicated a position some
13 miles to the west of where Titanic actually sank.
135
Ironically, Boxhall was responsible for both the miscalculation of the
distress position, and the Carpathia finding the survivors anyway. He was the
one who worked up the second set of distress coordinates at Captain Smith’s
request before they were transmitted by wireless; but it was also his green
flares that had guided Carpathia to the actual position of the lifeboats
throughout the night. If Boxhall had not tossed the box of flares into Boat No.
2 as it loaded – almost as an afterthought – then Carpathia may well have
completely missed seeing the lifeboats in the dark; she could easily have
steamed right past them and proceeded to the position that was transmitted,
ending up 13 miles away. This could have ended up costing more lives before
the actual position of the survivors had been pinpointed.
At around 4:05 a.m., Rostron saw another flare, closer this time. It was at
this point that the awful realization set in, and he ‘knew really it was a boat
and not the ship herself’. Rostron planned on picking up the lifeboat on
Carpathia’s port side, thus offering the leeward side of the ship where the
seas would be calmer. However, the ship had not yet ceased its forward
momentum, and suddenly, an iceberg appeared right in their path. None of the
lookouts or officers had been able to see it until the last possible second.
Since it was so near, Rostron said: ‘I had to port my helm hard-a-starboard
and put her head round quick and pick up the boat on the starboard side.’
Disaster was averted, but the whole thing was a little too close for comfort.
By 4:10 a.m. the Cunarder had stopped, and the lifeboat that had been
signaling them began rowing towards their side.
136
* * * * *
Even as the lights of the Carpathia were becoming visible to those in the
lifeboats, the lights of the other ship – the one which had been visible to the
north of Titanic throughout the night – were still visible to many. Those boats
that were rowing towards that vessel, such as Boat No. 8, had never seemed
to draw any closer, even by the time dawn approached. The ship never
responded to Titanic’s distress signals, despite the fact that they could not
have helped but see them.
With the appearance of Carpathia on the horizon, Boat No. 8 and the other
lifeboats gave up, turned around, and began to head towards the closer vessel
as she approached them.
137 Collapsible C headed toward the green flares
coming from Boat No. 2.138
Elsewhere, for those on top of Collapsible B, the situation had
deteriorated further. As waves continued to kick up, Collapsible B shifted
from side to side, causing air to leak out from under the boat. As a result, it
continued to settle lower and lower. Soon, water began washing over Harold
Bride’s face as he reclined on the hull, and he had to breathe when he could.
As the men continued desperately scanning the horizon for signs of a
rescue ship, a crewmember on the boat said: ‘Don’t the rest of you think we
ought to pray?’ He asked what religion everyone was, and a quick survey
revealed that there were Catholics, Methodists, and Presbyterians alike. The
men decided the Lord’s Prayer was the most appropriate, and recited it, with
the crewmember who suggested it leading the rest of them.
As waves began to wash over the hull of the upturned boat more and
more, the water reached the waists of those sitting in a reclined position.
Colonel Gracie, who had not noticed the icy temperature of the water while
he was struggling in it earlier in the night, was by now ‘suffering severely
from cold and exposure,’ and his teeth were chattering. Eugene Daly likewise
shivered uncontrollably, huddling under his soaked-through overcoat. As the
breeze continued to pick up, Daly found that his clothes had frozen ‘as stiff as
boards’. Two men on the stern of the boat, ‘unable to stand the exposure and
strain, gave up the struggle and fell off’. Several others who had clung to the
collapsible earlier in the night had already passed away.
Second Officer Lightoller had all the men who were physically able stand
in two rows, facing forward, holding on to one another by their lifebelts, or
any way they could. To keep the collapsible’s buoyancy, he tried to keep the
capsized boat level by calling out for everyone to lean first in the opposite
direction of that which the boat was rolling, and then in the other direction as
the boat shifted back.
Harold Bride was unable to stand, his feet both crushed and frostbitten, so
Thayer and the others tried to hold him up out of the water as much as
possible. Each man supported the man next to him, and they supported the
person next to them in turn. In an attempt to hail any boats that were nearby,
Lightoller said, ‘Now boys, all together,’ and had them repeatedly yell: ‘Boat
ahoy! Boat ahoy!’ This was kept up for a while, but when no responses were
forthcoming, Lightoller decided that it would be best for everyone to save
their strength.
Earlier in the night, when Lightoller had discovered Bride’s presence on
the boat, he had begun calling out questions to the Junior Marconi Operator
regarding who they had been in communication with prior to the sinking. In
order to keep everyone’s hopes up, Bride told everyone repeatedly that they
had been able to contact the Baltic, Olympic and Carpathia. He also said that
the Carpathia was coming up as fast as she could, and that he expected to
‘see her lights at about four or a little after’. The men began scanning the
brightening horizon even more closely looking for any vessels. They had been
fooled several times by the green flares Boxhall was lighting in Boat No. 2.
However, just as Bride had predicted, they saw the lights of a steamer appear
on the horizon right about four o’clock.
139
With the coming of dawn, the men atop Collapsible B were surprised to
see the small flotilla of lifeboats approximately half a mile away. They had
not seen any lights from other boats in that direction during the night, and
nobody had responded to their earlier hails. With the sea continuing to get
rougher, the men on the boat were ‘right glad’ at the discovery. It was not a
minute too soon. Second Officer Lightoller was finally able to find his
whistle; he put it up to his cold lips and ‘blew a shrill blast’ on it twice,
attracting the attention of the other boats’ occupants. He yelled: ‘Come over
and take us off.’
To this, Able Bodied Seaman Frederick Clench in Boat No. 12
responded: ‘Aye, aye; I am coming over.’ Then he separated his boat from the
flotilla.
140
Boat No. 4 also separated, and both immediately began heading over to
the upturned collapsible. Just before the lifeboats arrived alongside,
Lightoller ordered the 28 men who were still alive not to scramble onto the
other boats, but to take their time and wait their turn, so as to not endanger all
of their lives. They all obeyed, climbing hand over foot into the other two
boats. Approximately 16 climbed into Boat No. 12, and about 12 managed to
clamber into No. 4. This led to these two boats being very heavily loaded
with 69 and 60 aboard respectively.
141
Some of the men had to be helped into the other boats. Harold Bride was
in such bad shape by that point that he had to be carried off the collapsible.
Jack Thayer thought Bride ‘would have slipped off the bottom … if several of
us had not held onto him for the last half hour.’ Similarly, Eugene Daly was
shivering uncontrollably, and was ‘dragged’ into one of the boats. Describing
the situation, he said: ‘My sufferings in the lifeboat were intense until we
reached the Carpathia, where I was made comfortable.’ Daly, who had been
able to remain conscious up to that point, passed out before his boat reached
the Cunarder.
142
Colonel Gracie climbed into Boat No. 12, where he was glad to see
‘young Thayer’ sitting in the middle of the boat. He was unaware up to that
point that Thayer had even been aboard the collapsible with him. In an odd
twist of fate, Marian Thayer, in Boat No. 4, thought she recognized her son as
he climbed into Boat No. 12, but was not certain that it was him until they
were reunited on the Carpathia.
Cecil Fitzpatrick, the young Mess Steward, had somehow also managed to
survive the night on Collapsible B. He climbed gratefully into Boat No. 12,
and then remembered being rowed toward the Carpathia – and safety.
143
Second Officer Lightoller stayed on top of Collapsible B until every other
man had been taken off. Then he lifted a lifeless body into Boat No. 12, and
then climbed into the same boat himself. Colonel Gracie did not know who
the man was whose body Lightoller had brought aboard, but he was dressed
like a member of the crew. The Colonel worked over the body for some time,
rubbing the temples and wrists in an attempt to revive the man. It was futile.
The man’s neck was stiff; rigor mortis had already set in. With so many
people aboard No. 12, Gracie was forced to sit on top of the body until they
reached Carpathia.
Steamer blankets were distributed to the men who had been brought
aboard from the collapsible, and they huddled together underneath them to
keep warm. Once on board No. 12, Lightoller took command, standing at the
tiller. He then had those at the oars begin rowing towards the ship on the
horizon. Collapsible B was abandoned at the scene.
144
In swamped Collapsible A, the situation was not any better than it had
been on Collapsible B. The waves were causing water to slosh around inside
the boat. Nearly everyone was standing, in order to keep as much of their
bodies out of the icy sea water as possible. Fireman John Thompson had been
standing too, but as his injuries and the cold water took their toll, he
eventually collapsed and fell into the bottom of the boat.
145 William Mellors
stood, supporting another man. Mellors, chilled and utterly exhausted, lost his
grip on him, and the man fell, landing next to the five or six dead bodies lying
in the bottom of the boat. Fortunately, he recovered and survived.146
Richard Norris Williams asked one man in the boat for his hat, so that he
could help him bail. The man said no. Another man asked if it was all right to
put his arm around Williams’ neck, as he felt so cold and tired. Williams
replied: ‘Sure.’ Williams felt the man’s grip tighten and slacken several times,
before loosening all the way. The man’s body lifelessly slid into the water and
drifted away. As the collapsible settled further in the water, the occupants
were forced to roll some of the other bodies overboard in an attempt to
lighten the boat.
147
Rhoda Abbott, who had chunks of cork in her hair, was still managing to
stand and help the other survivors, despite the horrific loss of her two teenage
sons. George Rheims was very impressed with her stoicism, and said: ‘Mrs
Abbott is the most courageous woman I ever saw. She worked with the men to
balance the boat, remaining on her feet all the time.’148
August Wennerström was completely numb from limb to limb. He said: ‘If
we want [sic, wanted] to know if we still had the legs or any other [body] part
left, we had to feel with the hand.’149 Saloon Steward Edward Brown’s feet
were so swollen from the 28° water that they had burst his boots. His hands
were also very swollen.
150
As the sky continued to lighten, Fifth Officer Lowe and the others in Boat
No. 14 noticed Collapsible A in the distance, sitting very low in the water,
and looking as if it was about to sink. Lowe immediately began sailing
towards the boat. As the waves were kicking up, and towing Collapsible D
was slowing his forward progress, the Fifth Officer contemplated cutting Boat
D adrift, so that he could travel faster. He was worried because Collapsible
A looked to be ‘in a worse plight than this one I had in tow.’ He then decided
that he could manage things, and worked his way over to the other boat.
The occupants in Collapsible A had been shouting all night in an attempt
to get the attention of any boats nearby, but when none came, they had given
up. They didn’t know anyone had seen them until they spotted Boat No. 14’s
sail as it approached. As Boat No. 14 drew within 150 yards of the
collapsible, Lowe, worried that the survivors might rush their boat and
capsize it, pulled his Browning automatic out of his pocket, and fired four or
five warning shots into the water, saying that ‘they must not rush the boat.’151
Arriving alongside the swamped collapsible, Lowe found just thirteen
people still alive out of the approximately twenty who had originally climbed
aboard. There were also three corpses left in the bottom of the boat.
152 Lowe
immediately began transferring the survivors into Boat No. 14, where they
were covered with blankets and every attempt was made to keep them warm.
Several of the occupant’s hands and legs were so frostbitten that they needed
assistance to board the other boat. John Thompson, still unconscious, was
carried into No. 14. Leading Fireman Threlfall held Rhoda Abbott in his arms
until they reached the Carpathia.153 Later, Mrs Abbott had kind things to say
about Fifth Officer Lowe: ‘Had it not been for Officer Lowe I would have
been drowned. I was nearly exhausted when he lifted me into his lifeboat. It
would have been impossible for an officer to show more courtesy and many
of the criticisms that have been made against this man are very unjust.’154
Steward Alfred Theissinger was also on Collapsible A, and recalled that
the water had been up to the occupants’ knees through the night. However,
‘before daylight a lifeboat came near’ to them, and he remembered that they
were all taken aboard.155
August Wennerström perhaps best described the feeling of being rescued
after such a long ordeal:
Think of yourself in the middle of the ocean, standing in icy water for
… hours, and during those hours seeing 1,000 go under, and nothing in
sight to save your own life, and [then] so unexpected, a hand be [sic,
is] reached out to you.
156
The survivors from Boat A told Lowe that the three men in the bottom of the
collapsible were dead; Lowe wanted to make absolutely certain. He checked
them carefully, and was forced to conclude that they were gone. He decided to
leave them in the boat, as he was there ‘to save life’, and not to ‘worry about
bodies’.
157 Lifebelts were placed over the faces of the three victims, and then
the boat was abandoned. Lowe sailed away with Collapsible D still in tow.
In Boat No. 2, Fourth Officer Boxhall sat at the tiller, and the occupants
laboriously made their way toward the Carpathia’s side. The breeze was
making the boat drift towards the ship, and Captain Rostron could see that
they did not have full control of the boat. Arriving near the side of the ship at
4:10 a.m., Boxhall saw some of Carpathia’s crewmembers peering down
from the Bridge wing. He sung up to them: ‘Shut down your engines and take
us aboard. I have only one sailor.’
At that point, Mahala Douglas shouted out: ‘Titanic has gone down with
everyone on board!’
The Carpathia.
Boxhall brusquely told her to shut up. Realizing that she should not have
said anything, Mrs Douglas felt ‘he was perfectly right’ in doing so.158
Upon hearing Boxhall’s plea for assistance, Captain Rostron turned to
Carpathia’s Second Officer, James Bisset. He told him to ‘go overside with
two quartermasters, and board her as she comes alongside. Fend her off so
that she doesn’t bump, and be careful that she doesn’t capsize.’
Bisset and two seamen headed to the rail of Carpathia’s foredeck, where
rope ladders were hung over the side. As Boxhall maneuvered Boat No. 2
beside the ship’s hull, Bisset and the seaman climbed down into the boat, and
helped guide it astern to an open gangway on C Deck. There they made the
boat fast with some lines that had been lowered.159
Since some of the occupants were not in fit condition to climb safely up
the short Jacob’s ladder to the gangway, bosun’s chairs and canvas bags were
lowered, to help haul aboard the adults and children who couldn’t climb. It
was breaking day as the first survivors were being taken aboard, and there
was an impressive orange, yellow and red glow to the sky.
With daylight’s arrival, those on Carpathia and in Titanic’s lifeboats
could see icebergs all around them. Under less tragic circumstances, it would
have been called a beautiful and inspirational morning. Captain Rostron
described the icebergs that surrounded them, saying: ‘There were about 20
icebergs that would be anywhere from about 150 to 200 feet high and
numerous smaller bergs; also numerous what we call ‘growlers.’ You would
not call them bergs. They were anywhere from 10 to 12 feet high and 10 to 15
feet long above the water.’160
As one female passenger from Boxhall’s boat was hauled up to the
Carpathia in a bosun’s chair, she held something beneath her coat, which
Bisset and the Carpathia’s crewmembers believed was a baby. Suddenly, she
exclaimed: ‘Be careful of my doggie!’ Somehow this passenger had managed
to rescue her dog, in a boat which had just 17 of its 40 seats occupied.
Sometime around 4:20 a.m., once every other occupant of Boat No. 2 had
been taken aboard Carpathia, Boxhall climbed aboard and was led to the
Bridge by Second Officer Bisset. There he came across Captain Arthur
Rostron. Although the question was rhetorical, Rostron asked him: ‘Where is
the Titanic?’
Boxhall replied: ‘Gone! She sank at 2:20 a.m.’ A moment of stunned
silence followed, even though everyone on Carpathia’s Bridge had to have
suspected the worst. Boxhall added ‘in a voice of desperation’ that Titanic
‘was hoodoo’d from the beginning …’
Rostron gently took him by the arm and said in a quiet voice: ‘Never mind
that, my son. Tell me, were all her boats got away safely?’
Boxhall replied that he believed so, but that it was hard to see. He added
that the ship struck the berg at 11:40, and that the ‘boats were launched from
12:45 onwards.’ As he continued giving details, he lamented that many of the
boats were lowered half full, as nobody then believed the ship would sink.
Rostron asked: ‘Were many people left on board when she sank?’
Boxhall, a calm and consummate professional all through the tragedy,
finally broke down as the weight of the tragedy hit him head on: ‘Hundreds
and hundreds! Perhaps a thousand! Perhaps more!’ he shouted, his voice
cracking with emotion. ‘My God, sir, they’ve gone down with her. They
couldn’t live in this icy cold water.’ Among other details, he added that there
had been room for a dozen more people in his boat, but they didn’t pick up
any swimmers.
Since those on the Carpathia had not yet sighted any of the other lifeboats,
Boxhall told Rostron that ‘the other boats are somewhere near.’ Indeed, as
morning broke, many of the occupants in the other boats saw the Carpathia
sitting on the horizon. She was a most welcome sight indeed, and they began
rowing towards her, waiting for their turn to get picked up.
Rostron thanked Titanic’s Fourth Officer, and told him to ‘go below and
get some coffee, and try to get warm.’ Boxhall’s report was the first
confirmation to anyone from the outside world of the tragic news: Titanic had
sunk with great loss of life.
161
Boat No. 11 off-loads its human cargo to the Carpathia.

B
CHAPTER 7
IN THE WAKE OF A LEGEND
y the time Boat No. 2 was unloaded, and Fourth Officer Boxhall had
reported to Captain Rostron, other lifeboats were nearing Carpathia.
Each, in turn, queued up, ready to discharge their human cargo; the wait must
have seemed like an eternity.
First to arrive after Boat No. 2 was Boat No. 1, with its small load of only
twelve crew and passengers, at around 4:45 a.m. By now, Carpathia’s
crewmembers were fully engaged in the rescue efforts. Curious passengers
had crowded along the rails of the rescue ship, looking down from the decks
as the lifeboats approached; some even took photographs of history as it
played out.
As the occupants of Boat No. 1 climbed aboard Carpathia, Leading
Fireman Hendrickson grabbed Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon’s jacket from the
bottom of the boat, and brought it aboard. Sir Cosmo told Hendrickson: ‘If
you will get the men’s names I will see that they get some money in a few days
or give them a cheque shortly.’ Sir Cosmo went to Captain Rostron, to let him
know of his intentions to make good on his word, and give £5 to each of the
crewmembers of Boat No. 1 for a new kit. Rostron told him that would be
‘quite unnecessary’, but Sir Cosmo laughed, saying: ‘I promised it; so I have
got to give it them.’1
During the voyage to New York, Sir Cosmo saw Hendrickson on a deck
below the Smoking Room, and asked him to have the crewmen from Boat No.
1 assemble. Once they came on deck, he asked each man what his name was,
and handed him a £5 check. Afterwards, Sir Cosmo and Lady Duff Gordon
posed with the crewmembers and other occupants of Boat No. 1, wearing
their lifebelts, while Carpathia passenger Dr Frank Blackmarr snapped
several pictures. The Duff Gordons also had the crewmembers sign their
lifebelts.
2
The occupants of Boat No. 1 pose together on Carpathia’s deck.
Following the unloading of Boats Nos 2 and 1, there was a gap of time
before the next boat came in. Collapsible C, under the command of
Quartermaster Rowe, pulled up at 5:45 a.m.
3 One of the 42 other people in
Collapsible C with Rowe was J. Bruce Ismay. Once Ismay reached the deck,
he stood off to the side with his back up against a bulkhead, obviously in
shock from the tragedy.
Dr Frank McGee, Carpathia’s surgeon, asked White Star’s Chairman:
‘Will you not go into the saloon and get some soup, or something to drink?’
Ismay said: ‘No, I really do not want anything at all.’
Dr McGee insisted: ‘Do go and get something.’
Ismay again refused, saying: ‘If you will leave me alone I will be very
much happier here.’ Then he added: ‘If you will get me in some room where I
can be quiet, I wish you would.’
The doctor advised him to ‘go in the saloon and get something hot’, but
when Ismay refused once again, McGee found a room for him to stay in.
4
Ismay stayed in that room for the remainder of the voyage to New York,
never leaving it. Devastated by what had happened, he ate nothing but soup, as
he ‘did not want very much of anything’. Ismay was ‘obsessed with the idea,
and kept repeating, that he ought to have gone down with the ship because he
found that women had gone down.’
Two of the very few visitors the Chairman received during the subsequent
voyage were Second Officer Lightoller and Jack Thayer. Lightoller and Dr
McGee had tried convincing Ismay, to no avail, to ‘get the idea out of his
head’ that he should have stayed on the ship. McGee brought Thayer to
Ismay’s room later that morning, to see if he could cheer him up and get him to
eat something. Young Thayer and his father had spoken with Ismay frequently
while aboard Titanic. When he came into the room, Ismay, who was sitting in
pajamas, barely responded to Jack, and was staring straight ahead, in a very
nervous state. Thayer had breakfast in the cabin, and told Ismay that ‘he had a
perfect right to take the last boat.’ Despite this, Ismay did not respond.5
Since Titanic had been pointing north immediately before she sank, and
since Carpathia came up from the south-southeast, in general the oddnumbered starboard lifeboats were closer to the rescue ship than the port
boats. No. 2, which was a port boat, had rowed around the stern of Titanic
just before she sank, onto her starboard side. This explains her early arrival.
Boat No. 5, carrying Third Officer Pitman and Quartermaster Olliver, was
next in, arriving at around 6:00 a.m. Third Officer Pitman stated that it was
daylight as they waited to be picked up, and that their boat was a half mile or
less from six icebergs. At least one of these icebergs towered 100 to 150 feet
above the sea. Once Pitman was aboard the Cunarder, he helped with the
rescue efforts, lending a hand where one was needed. He spent the remainder
of the journey to New York assisting where he could, and comparing notes
with Lightoller, Colonel Gracie, and a small group of other survivors on their
experiences.
6
Shortly after No. 5 was picked up, Boat No. 7 approached, arriving
around 6:15 a.m. The two boats had remained near each other even after
cutting their ties. When Alfred Nourney climbed aboard Carpathia, he wasted
no time in taking advantage of the hospitality of the ship’s crewmembers.
After lunch, the would-be ‘Baron’ engaged in some extremely ungentlemanly
behavior. He went to the Smoking Room, and lay down on top of a pile of
blankets, monopolizing them for himself to use as a bed. The blankets were
intended for survivors as they were brought aboard, and Nourney refused to
move when a woman asked for them.
The lady, disgusted, nearly spat out the words: ‘To think of it: the like of
you saved and women left to drown; shame on you.’ She could scarcely
restrain the urge to grab Nourney by the collar and toss him into the sea. She
yanked away the top blanket underneath Nourney, causing him to roll on to the
floor. People jeered him and, thoroughly shamed, he beat a hasty retreat from
the room.
7
Closely following Boat No. 7 was Boat No. 9. When the occupants of this
boat had first seen Carpathia, they had started rowing towards it ‘like we
were pulling for gold’. Once alongside, Able Bodied Seaman George
McGough helped the women up the Jacob’s ladder that had been lowered.
One woman started up, but was exhausted and slipped, hanging there ‘fully 10
minutes before they got her aboard’. Some of the women were afraid of
heights, and didn’t want to go up the ladder, causing further delay. Once the
occupants of No. 9 were aboard, Sidney Collett said that ‘we were nearly
frantic, everybody was asking each other, “Did you see so-and-so”, or “Do
you know anything about such and such a person?” ’8
It was at around 6:30 a.m. that Boat No. 13, with Leading Fireman Barrett
aboard, arrived. By that point, Barrett had recovered somewhat from the cold.
Lawrence Beesley noticed the quiet and stillness that both the survivors and
the people on Carpathia displayed: ‘There was very little excitement on
either side: just the quiet demeanor of people who are in the presence of
something too big as yet to lie within their mental grasp, and which they
cannot discuss.’
Beesley recalled that after the survivors were aboard, they were informed
that passengers could send Marconigrams to their relatives free of charge, and
telegraph forms were passed around liberally. Beesley wrote a message to
some friends in England, but after the disaster, he discovered that it had not
been received, and as a result his friends and family believed he was dead;
this unfortunate impression was rectified only after he contacted them, or
when they saw his press account in the papers. His name had accidentally
been left off the list of those saved which the Carpathia had transmitted to
shore, and there were even obituary notices of him in the British papers. With
the massive number of wireless messages that were written and waiting to be
transmitted, not all of them could be sent.
9
Boat No. 16 – which carried Master-at-Arms Bailey and Stewardess
Violet Jessop – was picked up at 6:45 a.m. As the occupants came aboard,
Carpathia’s crewmembers gave them drinks of brandy, which Jessop said
went down ‘like molten fire’. As she stood there, she still clutched to her
chest the infant which Sixth Officer Moody had handed her just before Boat
No. 16 lowered away. Just then a woman rushed up, snatched the baby away,
and ran off with it.
Jessop, still numb from the cold, wondered why the mother had ‘not
expressed one word of gratitude for her baby’s life’. The stewardess then
started the sad search for her friends amongst the survivors; she found a
pathetic few. In vain, she searched for ‘our dear Tommy Andrews, for the
good doctor, for the boys that made life aboard easier for us, for good friends
in all departments. But they were all among the missing when the roll was
called’.
10
Boat No. 11 came in around 7:00 a.m. … Then, at around 7:15 a.m., Boat
No. 14 – commanded by Fifth Officer Lowe – came sailing up, with
Collapsible D in tow. While the occupants of Boat No. 14 were being picked
up, Fireman John Thompson was still unconscious in the bottom of the boat.
When he woke up, he was safely onboard the Carpathia. He was suffering
from a broken arm, frostbite, and burns to his hands. On top of this, his jaw
was locked from the cold.11
George Rheims had to be lifted aboard the ship, as he couldn’t walk or
climb the ladder at all. He was carried down to one of the ship’s hospitals,
and spent the rest of the day and night being treated there.
12 Peter Daly
suffered similar injuries, and was taken to the hospital as well. While there,
he and Rheims exchanged addresses. Since Rheims had saved him, Daly
asked if he could send a picture of himself ‘with a dedication fit for the King
of England’.
13
When Richard Norris Williams climbed up the ladder to Carpathia, his
legs felt alright. He was immediately taken inside, where he was helped to
dry off. He then warmed himself in between an oven and the galley wall.
However, in the coming days, his frostbite was found to be so bad that the
ship’s doctors felt his legs might need to be amputated. Fortunately, Williams
refused, and gradually made a full recovery.
14
Leading Fireman Threlfall, who had held Rhoda Abbott since her rescue
from Collapsible A, helped get her aboard. She was in a poor state, and was
carried to one of the ship’s hospitals, where she was treated for hypothermia,
leg contusions, burns, frostbite, and shock.
15
 William Mellors was in a similar
condition when assistance reached him. Doctor Washington Dodge, who came
aboard from Boat No. 13, noted that Mellors was ‘very much exhausted’.
Dodge took him to the stateroom he had been staying in, and gave Mellors
medicine and medical attention.
16 One dead body, that of William Hoyt, was
brought aboard Carpathia from the bottom of Boat No. 14.
By that point, lifeboats were starting to arrive several at a time. At 7:30
a.m., Boats Nos 3, 8, and 15 came in and started unloading their passengers.
As Boat No. 8 was rowing towards Carpathia, the Countess of Rothes was
still at the tiller, aided by her cousin Gladys Cherry. With the swells
increasing, and fatigue setting in, it was getting ‘very difficult to steer’.
Several passengers in No. 8 had to be lifted up to the gangway by a hoist. The
Countess later stated: ‘I was not at all frightened. Everybody was saying as
we left the ship that “she was good for twelve hours yet” and I was too numb
to realize the terror of it all until we were safe on board the Carpathia.’17
Once the survivors came aboard, the Cunarders’ crew took them down to
the Dining Saloon for warm drinks and stimulants. Gladys Cherry remarked
that ‘the women came in unconscious, some hysterical and all more or less
collapsed.’ Regarding the Carpathia’s crew, she said that ‘they were
wonderful [with] all they did for us.’18 Able Bodied Seaman Thomas Jones
was extremely complimentary of the Countess of Rothes’ hard work in Boat
No. 8. As a token of his appreciation, he presented her with the brass number
plate from their boat.
Boat No. 14 sails toward rescue.
Boat No. 14 tows Collapsible D toward Carpathia.
Collapsible D approaches the Cunard liner.
It was a case of mutual admiration, and despite having come from two
completely separate worlds, the two kept in touch after the disaster, writing to
each other periodically. In one letter, the Countess lamented that Jones, an
unnamed ‘American lady’, her cousin Gladys, and she had been the only ones
in their boat who wanted to row back to rescue people from the water. She
reassured Jones, saying: ‘You did all you could, and being my own
countryman, I wanted to tell you this.’19
When it came time for Maggie Daly and Bertha Mulvihill to board the
ship from Boat No. 15, Maggie was only able to climb up the Jacob’s ladder
with assistance. By then, Bertha, who was in a good deal of pain, was
delirious. It had been several hours since Carpathia arrived on the scene, but
it took a lot of time for all of the boats to be picked up. Bertha could
remember just one thing distinctly from the time she was waiting: She
watched an ice cake, real or imagined, that was bumping into the side of the
boat. ‘I watched it, and once, I remember, I laughed when another cake of ice
pushed between it and the boat. I must have been ill then.’20
Bertha was too weak to climb the ladder, so a sling was lowered and tied
around her, and she was hoisted aboard. This brought fresh agony, as the
process irritated her rib and back injuries. Once she had gained the deck,
Bertha said that Carpathia’s crewmembers could not have been any kinder.
She was given blankets, food and hot drinks, and a doctor came to check on
her. A passenger had offered to give her the use of his cabin, but because of
her injuries, she spent most of the voyage to New York laying flat on her back
on the deck, which helped alleviate her pain.
21
Boat No. 6, with Quartermaster Hichens standing at the tiller, approaches the Carpathia.
Assistant Saloon Steward Walter Nichols said that aboard the Carpathia,
‘things were pretty crowded … Many of the women stayed in their rooms the
whole trip. I heard that Mr Ismay stayed in his cabin all the time.’22
Boat No. 4 came in next at around 8:00 a.m., with approximately 60
people aboard. Besides the survivors, the bodies of Able Bodied Seaman
William Lyons and Bedroom Steward Sidney Siebert were also removed from
the boat and taken aboard Carpathia.23 Trimmer Patrick Dillon was in bad
shape when picked up; he, along with some of the other crewmembers who
had been fished from the sea, spent a good deal of time in one of the ship’s
hospitals after being brought onboard.24 Emily Ryerson later remarked that the
‘kindness and the efficience [sic, efficiency] of all the arrangements on the
Carpathia can never be too highly praised’.
25
Boats Nos 6 and 10 arrived around 8:00 a.m., close to when the occupants
of No. 4 were picked up. Shortly after coming aboard, Margaret Brown went
to the Dining Saloon; there she saw Quartermaster Hichens in the corner,
surrounded by a cluster of people. He was playing the role of the ‘brave and
heroic seaman’, gesticulating wildly, and telling all those present ‘what
difficulty he had in maintaining discipline among the occupants of the boat’.
Looking up, he noticed Margaret and some of the other survivors from Boat
No. 6 standing nearby, and ‘made a hasty retreat’.
26
While waiting for Boat No. 10 to get picked up, Second Class passenger
Imanita Shelley noticed that the lips of several passengers in the boat were
cracked and bleeding. Her initial thoughts were that they had some sort of
disease, before touching her hands to her own mouth, and finding that her own
lips were bleeding as well. Apparently, the icy temperatures and spray of
water had caused their lips to chap and crack. Shelley and some of the others
were hoisted aboard via a sling, while some of the babies and small children
were hauled up to Carpathia in burlap sacks.
Shelley’s mother Lutie Parrish had to be taken below to have her injured
leg and foot examined in the ‘steerage hospital.’ Shelley complained that there
were a lot of ‘foreigners’ there, and that a strong smell of antiseptic
permeated everything. She was much more positive about the doctors aboard
the ship, and ‘how hard they worked, unceasingly to do for us.’ Shortly after
boarding, Shelley went to the wireless cabin and wrote out a message to be
delivered to her husband, in order to let him know that she and her mother
were all right. Much like what happened to Lawrence Beesley, her message
was never sent, probably owing to the large volume of messages that were
waiting to be sent.
27 Shelley was bothered by this oversight, as she had paid
£1 to have her message sent home, unlike Beesley, who was not charged for
his message.
Last in, at around 8:15 a.m., and most heavily loaded of all with around
70 occupants, was lifeboat No. 12. The boat was so overloaded that the
Carpathia’s crew had some difficulty maneuvering the boat alongside her hull
to offload its human cargo. Harold Bride, one of several survivors from
Collapsible B who were aboard this boat, attempted to climb the Jacob’s
ladder. Although his feet pained him terribly, he got to the top, saw hands
reaching out to him, and promptly passed out. The next thing Bride knew, he
was in a cabin on the ship, and a woman was leaning over him, waving back
his hair and rubbing his face. He felt someone at his feet, and also the warm
jolt of a shot of liquor as it was administered; then he was carried down to the
ship’s hospital, where he stayed for a time.
28
Second Officer Lightoller, who had taken command of No. 12 when he
transferred from Collapsible B, saw all the survivors and the apparently dead
body out of the lifeboat. Only then did he climb aboard the Carpathia
himself.
29 The senior surviving officer of the lost Titanic was the last
survivor to be taken aboard the Cunarder. Immediately afterwards, he met
with Captain Rostron.
After speaking with Rostron, Lightoller was taken to a room, where he
stripped off his wet clothes so that they could be dried, and climbed into a
bunk. He remained there for only half an hour before turning out; thereafter, he
wasn’t in a bunk or bed again until after the arrival in New York. Lightoller
assisted Carpathia’s crew and aided the survivors however he could. He had
in-depth discussions about the sinking with his fellow surviving officers and
Colonel Gracie, among others.
30
Chief Second Class Steward John Hardy was shocked when he saw
Lightoller aboard Carpathia the following day. The last time he had seen the
Second Officer was when Lightoller had jumped back aboard Titanic after
being ordered into Collapsible D by Chief Officer Wilde. Up to that moment,
Hardy had assumed Lightoller perished.31
Besides Harold Bride, several of the other survivors who had been
rescued from Collapsible B were also suffering from severe hypothermia.
Eugene Daly was unconscious when brought aboard. Several crewmembers
carried him to the cabin of Dr Frank Blackmarr, who had volunteered his
services and the use of his cabin in aiding the survivors, and placed him in
one of the berths. Blackmarr administered stimulants and hot drinks, and
slowly Daly came around. As he did, he told the doctor his story in an
emotional dumping of thoughts and details. Several times during the retelling,
Daly fell back on his pillow ‘sobbing and moaning’, and saying: ‘My God, if I
could only forget!’ When Daly was feeling better, he was given a heavy
blanket in which armholes had been cut to use as clothing until his own
clothes were dried out, and he was taken down to the ship’s engine room to
warm up.32
Another survivor who was in poor shape was Saloon Steward Thomas
Whiteley. After being brought aboard Carpathia, Whiteley passed out, and
was unconscious for the next two days. While being given medical treatment
in one of the ship’s hospitals, it was discovered that Whiteley had broken a
bone in his leg, had lacerated feet, and was suffering from hypothermia. He
remained in the hospital until the arrival in New York.
33 Chief Baker Charles
Joughin was in somewhat better shape, although his feet were so swollen that
he had to climb up the ladder to Carpathia on his knees.
34
As the lifeboats came in one by one, Titanic passengers lined Carpathia’s
rail, anxiously searching for and desperately hoping to see friends and family
coming in the next lifeboat. As he was waiting his turn to board the ship,
Colonel Gracie looked up and noticed the faces of several acquaintances and
friends who had survived, and he waved at them. Despite being very cold,
Gracie had been able to climb up the Jacob’s ladder by himself. Once aboard,
he went to the Second Class ‘dispensary’, where he was given a warm
reception, and was handed a hot drink. Gracie then went to the Dining Saloon,
where his wet clothes were taken to be sent down to the bake oven for drying
out. Waiting for his clothes’ return, Gracie lay down on the lounge in the
corner, underneath a mound of rugs and blankets. He said that ‘nothing could
exceed the kindness of the ladies, who did everything possible for my
comfort.’35
In many cases, Titanic survivors who were still waiting for their loved
ones to be brought aboard would be disappointed; for many wives looking for
their husbands came the sad truth that their husbands had gone down with the
ship. August Wennerström said that the ‘shrieks and cries of the rescued after
coming up on Carpathia were horrible’. He noticed that some of the women
were clothed in robes and wrappers. ‘Most of them believed that their
husbands had been picked up in some other boat. Mothers called for their
children, and children cried for their lost playthings, not understanding that
their dads also were gone.’36
First Class passenger Alice Silvey was among those who had not grasped
the entirety of the situation until aboard the rescue ship. She said that her
foremost thought was for the ‘poor stokers … I did not think for a moment that
any passengers had remained on the ship. I thought the men far down in the
hold must have been the only ones to go down.’ Only after she was aboard the
Carpathia did she realize that there had been a great loss of life, including her
husband, William. Up until then, she had fully expected that he had been
rescued in another lifeboat.
37
When Jack Thayer had climbed the last rung of the Carpathia’s ladder, his
mother Marian was standing nearby, and she was ‘overjoyed’ to see him.
Unfortunately, her joy quickly turned to sadness as she realized that her
husband John was not with her son, as she had assumed he would be. In fact,
Jack hadn’t seen his father since being separated from his parents during the
sinking.
38
While some of the survivors still clung to the false hope that another ship
had picked up their loved ones, for most the truth really began to sink in.
Wennerström, Thayer, and the others who had struggled for their lives in the
water, and on the collapsibles, were all too aware of the horrible reality of
what had happened. As Wennerström put it, ‘we few, who had went down
with Titanic and had been around the place during the whole night and with
our own eyes saw them all die, knew that no other boat had been around and
that all who were saved was [sic] on the Carpathia – but we never said it,
we let them keep the hope. Many never knew the truth before they landed in
New York.’39
Thanks to Captain Rostron’s quick-witted orders to his own crew, the
Carpathia’s crew had been fully prepared to care for the Titanic’s survivors.
The Cunarder’s crew tried to get survivors off the deck and herd them below
into the Dining Saloons, to give them food and drink, and then to find warm
sleeping quarters. Many of the generous Carpathia passengers offered to
share their cabins with survivors, and some even completely gave over the
use of their cabins to the survivors; they chose instead to sleep on steamer
chairs in the Smoking Room.
40 Rostron’s orders had specified that
Carpathia’s own Third Class passengers were to be grouped together, to
make as much room for the survivors as possible. Even so, many of Titanic’s
passengers had to find places to sleep in the Carpathia’s common rooms.
41
Complicating matters, however, was the fact that due to immigration laws,
the survivors would have to be separated by class, just as they had been on
Titanic. Yet some exceptions were made when passengers of different classes
had to be berthed together in the hospitals for medical treatment. Such was the
case with Lutie Parrish, a Second Class passenger on Titanic, who was given
a bed in the hospital for Carpathia’s Third Class passengers. Once everyone
was aboard, Saloon Steward Alexander Littlejohn said that he and other
surviving stewards ‘set to work looking after the passengers as though on our
own ship’.
42
Captain Rostron later remarked at the stoicism of Titanic’s survivors as
they were brought aboard: ‘As each boat came alongside everyone was calm,
and they kept perfectly still in their boats. They were quiet and orderly, and
each person came up the ladder, or was pulled up, in turn as they were told
off. There was no confusion whatever among the passengers. They behaved
magnificently – every one of them.’43
After all the boats were unloaded, Captain Rostron lowered the ship’s
falls, and hauled seven of Titanic’s lifeboats aboard using the davits. The
crew used the forward cargo cranes to haul six more boats on to the
Forecastle, making a total of thirteen boats recovered. Of the boats that came
alongside Carpathia, five were set adrift – Boat Nos 4, 14, and 15, as well as
Collapsibles C and D. These boats joined Collapsibles A and B, which had
been set adrift earlier after their occupants were rescued by other Titanic
lifeboats.
44
As this process was being completed, the Leyland Line ship Californian
arrived on the scene, having cut through the ice field to the west. Once in
communication, Rostron ‘gave them the notes’ via semaphore about Titanic
having sunk. Owing to some confusion, Rostron and some of his crew were
unsure whether all of Titanic’s lifeboats had been accounted for; Rostron thus
told Captain Lord: ‘Think one boat still unaccounted for.’ Lord asked if he
should search around, and Rostron replied, ‘Yes, please.’45 However, all of
the work had already been done, and there was no one left to rescue from the
water.
By 8:30 a.m., all of the survivors had been taken aboard. Captain Rostron
called for his Purser. After consulting with Bruce Ismay – who ‘left
everything in my hands’ – Rostron told the Purser to hold a service, ‘a short
prayer of thankfulness for those rescued and a short burial service for those
who were lost’. Rostron asked one of Carpathia’s passengers, who was an
Episcopal clergyman, to lead the service, which he did willingly.
46
While this service was being performed, Rostron maneuvered his ship
around the wreck site, double checking for any more survivors. He spotted
nothing except for debris, and a lone body floating approximately 100 yards
off, held up by a life preserver. The person bore the appearance of being a
crewmember, and he was lying on his side, with his head awash. The body
was not recovered, as Rostron did not want to cause any more excitement or
hysteria among the survivors than was absolutely necessary. No other bodies
were visible to Carpathia, or the Californian for that matter; they had
apparently drifted away from the wreckage due to the local current and the
wind which had sprung up that morning.
47
Hoisting one of the lifeboats aboard the deck.
Rostron continued his search for approximately a half hour.
48 He then
asked the Californian to continue the search for any survivors on rafts or
wreckage, and turned his ship to the southwest. He sailed on for some 56
miles before being able to get around the ice, and then he turned and headed
west for New York.
Rostron stopped in to speak with Bruce Ismay in his cabin, and suggested
that Ismay contact White Star to notify them about the disaster. Ismay wrote on
a scrap of paper:
Deeply regret advise you Titanic sank this morning after collision
with iceberg, resulting in serious loss of life. Full particulars later.
Bruce Ismay.
49
Captain Rostron took the message to the Marconi office, and had Harold
Cottam transmit it to New York. Cottam had been on duty since the previous
night, and despite being fatigued, showed no signs of wanting to turn in. There
were many critical messages to be sent and received, and more were piling up
as time went on – including those from survivors trying to let their relatives
know they were alive.
Ismay was extremely eager for Titanic’s surviving crewmembers to be
sent back to England as soon as possible after arriving in New York. He sent
several wireless messages to Phillip Albright Small Franklin, Vice-President
and General Manager of International Mercantile Marine, on April 17.
Through the course of these messages, he used the rather obvious code name
of ‘Yamsi,’ or Ismay spelled backwards, to convey the following directive:
Very important you should hold Cedric daylight Friday for Titanic’s
crew. Answer. YAMSI.
50
Later that same day, Ismay sent an additional wireless to Franklin, which
made it clear that he personally intended to return to England early in the
morning of April 19, following Carpathia’s projected late arrival on the night
of April 18:
Most desirable Titanic crew aboard Carpathia should be returned
home earliest moment possible. Suggest you hold Cedric, sailing her
daylight Friday, unless you see any reason contrary. Propose returning
in her myself. Please send outfit of clothes, including shoes, for me to
Cedric. Have nothing of my own. Please reply. YAMSI.
51
Several other messages repeating this request were sent. Franklin responded
by wireless to Ismay, saying that they had arranged for Titanic’s crew to sail
home aboard the Lapland on that Saturday, and that they all considered it
‘most unwise’ to delay the Cedric given the circumstances.
Following the sinking, Ismay was criticized, as it appeared that he had
planned to flee the United States and hurry the surviving crewmembers out of
the country before a formal inquiry into the sinking could be organized there.
Ismay himself denied that was ever his intention, saying he was unaware that
there would even be an inquiry held in the United States. Ismay did know that
an inquiry was sure to be held by the British Board of Trade, however, and
wanted to be back in England for it.
52
When Second Officer Lightoller testified in the Senate Inquiry, he claimed
that it was his idea that the Cedric be delayed to take the survivors back to
England as quickly as possible, and that he suggested this to Ismay. According
to him, the thought was to get them back to their families, to where an inquiry
was sure to be held, and to where new jobs would be available. Whether
Lightoller’s claim was truthful, or simply an attempt to protect his employer,
is unknown.
53
Rostron had one last sad task to perform. While recovering the lifeboats
earlier in the day, the bodies of three or four dead men had been brought
aboard from the boats. Reportedly, one of the four men may have been alive
when brought aboard, but that he subsequently succumbed to hypothermia. At
around 4:00 p.m., these four individuals were buried at sea from the deck.
54
Lists of the Titanic survivors were prepared by the Carpathia’s officers;
they were assisted in this effort by Titanic’s Second Officer Lightoller and
Steward John Hardy; they also helped prepare the list of Titanic’s surviving
crew. When these lists were circulated, Imanita Shelley was greatly disturbed
to see that her stewardess from aboard Titanic was among the missing.
55
Icebergs photographed from the Carpathia that morning.
The lists of survivors were taken to Cottam, who was still on duty in the
Marconi Room, for transmission. However, Cottam had then been up for over
24 hours straight, and was close to collapse, even though he continued sending
messages. Captain Rostron appealed to Harold Bride for help, saying that
Cottam was getting ‘queer’. Bride was still recuperating from his injuries in
Carpathia’s hospital. Despite this, he readily agreed to help, but had to be
carried to the Marconi Shack. He assisted Cottam until Carpathia reached
New York.
Cottam had been extremely busy. He had worked the wireless all day and
night Sunday, all day and night Monday, and all day Tuesday; he finally fell
asleep at the instrument for a mere three hours late Tuesday night. Waking up
in the same uncomfortable position early Wednesday morning, he immediately
resumed sending messages until Bride relieved him late Wednesday afternoon.
All told, Cottam believed he only got eight to ten hours of sleep between the
time the Carpathia arrived at the scene of the wreck, and the time she arrived
in New York on Thursday, April 18.56
The number of messages that Cottam and Bride had to deal with was
staggering. In addition to sending out the 712 survivor names, one by one,
there were service messages going out from Captain Rostron; there were also
incoming inquiries from dozens of newspapers, and from friends and relatives
of the dead and the survivors, asking for details; there were also outgoing
personal messages from the survivors themselves, telling their friends and
families that they were safe. In this tremendous crush, an incoming message
from United States President William Howard Taft, asking for information
about his military aide, Archibald Butt, was received. According to
Carpathia’s Chief Purser Ernest Brown, the response was a Marconigram
stating simply: ‘Not on board’. Captain Rostron’s instruction to the Marconi
operators was that transmitting the survivor lists, and the personal messages
from survivors, were to take priority.
On her way west, Carpathia ran into rainy and stormy weather, followed
by a thick fog on Wednesday, April 18. This forced her to slow down for
safety purposes. During the voyage, Titanic’s survivors – cramped into small
spaces aboard the rescuing liner – had nothing to do but discuss their lot. As a
result, a number of wild – and a few not so wild – rumors began to circulate:
that Captain Smith, Chief Officer Wilde, First Officer Murdoch, or Chief
Engineer Bell had shot themselves;
57
that the lookouts had sighted several
icebergs before the one they actually struck, and that the ship still had not
slowed down;
58 and that Major Butt had entered into a pact with Colonel
Astor and George Widener to shoot them, and then himself, before the ship
sank.
59
Some of the survivors – led by Dr Henry Frauenthal, Margaret Brown,
and Martha Stone – formed a committee to honor the brave crewmen of the
Carpathia who had saved them. They collected funds from the survivors, and
by the time they reached New York, over $4,000 was raised and distributed
among the crew. Captain Rostron was given $500, and the rest of the officers
and crewmembers were given amounts ranging from $5 to $100 – even $5
was a significant amount of money at the time. Once in port, the fund
eventually raised over $15,000, and was turned over to J. P. Morgan &
Company for safekeeping.
60
* * * * *
As could have been expected, once the news that the Titanic had sunk hit the
United States and Great Britain, the newspapers picked it up. They splashed
the story all over their front pages in giant block text. The first reports were
hopeful, and instilled a false sense of relief. One newspaper, for example,
dedicated its entire first page to the ‘near disaster’, announcing: ‘All Titanic
Passengers are Safe.’ They claimed that everyone was transferred aboard the
Virginian by lifeboat. This paper also claimed that the Virginian was
‘Towing Great Disabled Liner Into Halifax.’61 Another paper had headlines
declaring: ‘Titanic’s Passengers are Transhipped.’ Also: ‘All Saved from
Titanic after Collision.’62
Other papers described this imaginary North Atlantic version of a Chinese
Fire Drill in even greater detail, claiming that all the passengers were safe.
Inconsistently, some papers claimed that the passengers had, in fact, been
transferred to the Carpathia or Parisian, not the Virginian. Since a passenger
train had already been dispatched to pick up survivors who were expected to
land in Halifax, it was forced to turn around and head back to New York,
where those two ships were due to arrive. The confusion and worry these
rumors must have caused passengers’ families is unimaginable. It added to the
uncertainty, and eventually to the sadness, as many had believed their loved
ones were safe before learning the truth.
Survivors on Carpathia’s forward deck.
Survivors on deck, braced against the cold in steamer rugs.
Looking down on survivors from Carpathia’s upper decks. In the upper right hand corner, the
survivors from Boat No. 1 can be seen posing for their group photograph.
Initially, The New York Times was the only paper to run an accurate
headline about the situation, reporting: ‘New Liner Titanic Hits Iceberg;
Sinking By Bow At Midnight.’63 Their first headline met with heavy criticism
from the other papers, which did not believe Titanic had sunk. Only later did
the rest catch up and begin reporting the reality of the disaster. More dreary
headlines, such as: ‘Hope for more Titanic Survivors Faint’ and, ‘Only about
800 Rescued from Titanic’, began to run from the presses.
64
Captain Haddock of the Olympic was of the opinion that these false
rumors were attributable to garbled wireless messages. He fervently denied
that his ship sent or received any misleading or false reports stating Titanic
was safe. Haddock noted that at 1:35 p.m. on April 15, Olympic had received
a wireless message asking: ‘Are all Titanic passengers safe?’ Two hours
earlier, they had received a wireless message from the ship Asian, mentioning
that they had heard Titanic signaling Cape Race, then later sending SOS calls;
the message also passed along Titanic’s distress coordinates and reported that
the Asian was west of Titanic, and was then towing an oil tanker to Halifax.
Somehow in the rush of messages, Haddock believed amateur wireless
operators had confused the information from these messages, leading to the
false headlines.
65
Even White Star Line officials had not been immune to the false headlines
and reports. By 10:30 a.m. on Monday morning, Phillip A. S. Franklin, VicePresident and General Manager of International Mercantile Marine, was
overwhelmed with visitors and phone calls to the White Star Line office in
New York City. Believing the reassuring reports in the press, Franklin was
optimistic. He stated that rumors Titanic had sunk were preposterous … that
the cessation of the ship’s wireless signals was not uncommon … that the
situation was due to nothing more than ‘atmospheric interference’. He stated
that the White Star Line placed ‘absolute confidence in the Titanic. We
believe the boat is unsinkable.’
Franklin continued to stay optimistic throughout the day, despite a growing
list of reasons to believe that the situation was not as positive as he insisted.
The office was continuously swamped with callers and visitors. Franklin
admitted that Carpathia might have had some of Titanic’s passengers aboard,
but that they had not yet heard from the Parisian, which he felt may also have
rescued some survivors.
Crowds gather outside the Manhattan offices of the International Mercantile Marine and White
Star Line at 9 Broadway, across from Bowling Green Park. Although the revolving door has been
replaced, this building still stands, and as of this writing houses an electronics store.
As reporters continued to press him, the beleaguered Vice-President
finally admitted that there had been ‘a terrible loss of life’. At 4:35 p.m., a
wireless operator atop Wanamaker’s Department Store at the corner of 9th
Avenue and Broadway finally overheard a wireless message from the
Olympic. It was earth-shatteringly clear, stating that Titanic had sunk with
great loss of life, and that 675 survivors were aboard Carpathia.
66
Despite this news, Franklin continued to hold out hope, saying: ‘We are
hopeful that the rumors which reached us by telegraph from Halifax that there
are passengers aboard the Virginian and Parisian will prove to be true. It is
the loss of life that makes this thing so awful. We can replace the money loss
but not the lives of those who went down.’ Then, at 8:20 p.m., he
acknowledged that it was likely that the only survivors were those aboard
Carpathia.67
By midnight, Franklin wept openly. He said: ‘I thought her unsinkable, and
I based my opinion on the best expert advice. I do not understand it.’68
Later, as the size of the ‘excited’ crowds outside of the White Star Line
office grew, police officers were called out to control the situation. Franklin
later admitted that he held back on the news because it was ‘discouraging’.
69
People in the crowd were weeping. Relatives of passengers on the ship were
storming the White Star Line offices en masse, hoping to get news regarding
their loved ones.
Vincent Astor – Colonel Astor’s son – accompanied by A. J. Biddle, was
one of the earliest to arrive. After speaking with White Star Line officials, he
came out and ‘buried his face in his hands and sobbed’. He had been told that
his stepmother Madeleine Astor was known to be among the saved, but that
the worst was feared for his father, whose name was missing from the list of
survivors sent from Carpathia. Another visitor at the offices was a White
House attaché, who had been dispatched by President Taft to get news of the
President’s military aide and close friend, Major Archibald Butt. He too left
with doubtful news.
70
As news of the true scope of the disaster spread around the globe, family
members and friends continued to clamor for any news on the fate of their
loved ones. Huge crowds grew outside the White Star Line office in London,
clamoring for the latest information, and the crowd outside the company’s
New York offices continued to grow. Names of survivors were posted as they
were received. Many families had already seen their relatives’ names on the
lists of survivors that were being sent by telegraph from Carpathia and which
were then published in the papers. However, these lists were rife with errors;
some individuals who had perished, such as Sixth Officer James Moody, were
actually at first listed as survivors;
71 others, who actually survived, were
listed as victims. It must have been a tortuous few days as all awaited
confirmation. In a cruel trick of fate, some were given false hopes.
Margaret Brown’s brother, Daniel Tobin of Denver, Colorado, had
traveled to Chicago when word of the Titanic disaster hit the papers. He kept
a constant vigil outside of the White Star Line offices there. When a report
came in that his sister’s name was on the list of passengers taken on board
Carpathia, he was overjoyed. ‘No more suspenses like that for me,’ he said.
‘You can talk about stocks and bonds, but nothing ever had me going the way
that did.’72
Crowds also gather outside White Star’s Southampton offices, anxious for news of survivors.
Outside the London offices of the White Star Line, newsboys try to sell papers featuring the story
of the disaster.
Edith Gracie, daughter of Archibald Gracie.
Many relatives would have to wait for definitive news. What Colonel
Gracie’s daughter Edith had heard so far was positive, but it was not
definitive. She said: ‘I am hoping what they told me is true, and that father is
safe, but I am not sure yet whether it is true. The message I received
concerning father’s safety said he was probably one of the survivors. It did
not state decidedly that he was saved. Therefore, I am hoping for the best, but
have been in constant fear that something has happened to him and will be
until I see him.’ She proceeded to New York to wait for the Carpathia to
come in. Her mother – who was said to be close to a nervous breakdown –
and other relatives would meet up with her there.
73
At the offices of the Chicago Daily News, G. Woodward, Charles
Joughin’s brother-in-law, made inquiries about his relative’s fate. Like so
many others, he was forced to wait for reliable news. He was told that the
names of crewmembers who had lost their lives had not yet been made public.
Woodward remarked that ‘my brother-in-law has been in the White Star
service for fifteen years. About two weeks ago I received a letter from him
saying he had been sent from the Olympic to the Titanic. His home is in
Southampton, England, and he has a wife and two children there.’74
Eventually, he would receive the joyous news of Charles’ survival.
Other survivors had not received good news. A grief-stricken Eleanor
Smith already knew that her husband, Captain Smith, was not among those
picked up by Carpathia. Despite this, she demonstrated extraordinary strength
and resolve, writing a heartfelt letter of condolence to the family members and
friends of the other victims. On April 18, her message was posted outside of
the White Star Line offices in London:
To my poor fellow sufferers: My heart overflows with grief for you
all and is laden with sorrow that you are weighed down with this
terrible burden that has been thrust upon us. May God be with us and
comfort us all. Yours in deep sympathy, Eleanor Smith.
75
* * * * *
Back aboard the Carpathia the weather had turned bad, and the ship had to
sail through a storm and rather rough seas. Bertha Mulvihill was terrified that
the Carpathia might sink, and a number of other survivors were similarly
alarmed.76 Down in the ‘steerage hospital’, Imanita Shelley and her mother
Lutie Parrish both had similar concerns, and tried to ward off ‘awful nausea
which began to take hold of us, for after the Carpathia had picked us up we
had the worst kind of weather, the sea devils evidently mad at the idea of any
of us escaping their clutches.’77
Weather was not the worst of what Imanita Shelley and her mother had
experienced while aboard the Carpathia. During the first night aboard, one
female survivor in the ship’s Third Class hospital, apparently hysterical, tried
to throw herself overboard. She was prevented from doing so by several
people nearby. Angry, she stood at the foot of Lutie Parrish’s bed with an
improvised club, and announced that she was going to kill her. Mrs Parrish
was helpless to defend herself due to her injured foot and leg. Seeing no one
nearby to help her mother, Imanita tried to distract the woman. She turned and
said: ‘You are another one that won’t let me dies [sic], and I’ll fix you, too.’
Shelley responded as best she could: ‘No, I want to help you. If you want
to commit suicide, you have a perfect right to.’
The woman immediately changed her attitude, telling Shelley how glad
she was that at least one person onboard the Carpathia was her friend.
Shelley told her that if she wanted to jump overboard, then she ‘ought to do it
in a ladylike manner, and that no lady would try to jump overboard without an
escort’. The woman agreed, begging her to find a man to assist her in this task.
Shelley ‘at once called the steward and he in turn called another man and they
escorted her to the doctor’s, and we never saw her any more’.
Carpathia steams past her own pier to that which would have been used by Titanic, had she not
sunk. There, she offloads the thirteen lifeboats she picked up from the wreck site.
Titanic’s lifeboats in Pier 59, with Carpathia’s hull in the background.
For the remainder of the voyage, Shelley assisted her mother and others
who were in the hospital. Shelley fancied herself a translator, claiming that
since so few of the Steerage passengers in the Third Class hospital spoke
English, a stewardess had come to her, begging for help in making herself
understood. Shelley, who only spoke English, claimed that she could make the
‘foreigners’ understand her simply by ‘pitching’ her voice, using the ‘inflect
and accent’ of the person that she was trying to speak to, and imitating their
manner of speech. She claimed that she was able to make the Spanish, Italian,
Hungarian, and French speaking steerage passengers alike all understand her
by using this method. She also claimed that ‘if one were able to get en
rapport with the spirit of any language it was not necessary to know the actual
words.’ Somehow, it seems more likely that the individuals to which she
referred actually spoke some English, and that her ‘ingenious’ method was not
quite as intelligent as it appeared to be.
78
By the time the Carpathia passed Ambrose Lightship on the approach to
New York Harbor late on Thursday, April 18, it was raining. Many small
boats surrounded the single-funnel steamship, carrying reporters who eagerly
hunted for any stories they could get from the survivors. They shouted up to
the Titanic survivors lining the railings, asking for information. Using flares to
light the sky, they attempted to get photographs of them too. Some reporters
had even bribed their way aboard the pilot vessel New York and attempted to
climb the ladder up to the Carpathia’s deck, but were turned back by
Carpathia’s officers. One reporter did actually make it on board, but was
corralled by the crew, taken to Captain Rostron, and detained on the bridge
until Carpathia tied up at the dock.
79
While these reporters were prevented from boarding Carpathia, by a
strange coincidence, there were already some aboard. Carlos Hurd, one of
Carpathia’s passengers, just happened to be a reporter for the St. Louis Post
Dispatch. Captain Rostron attempted to protect the privacy of the survivors
by preventing communication between them and either Hurd or his wife.
Despite this, Hurd managed to conduct several dozen interviews. As the
Carpathia was entering New York Harbor, Hurd wrapped up his interview
notes in a makeshift waterproof package, and then threw it down to a boat that
had come alongside. His notes were rushed to the office of the New York
World, where they were among the earliest published stories that featured
actual eyewitness information.
80
Once inside New York Harbor, the Carpathia passed the Battery at
Manhattan’s southern tip … it was mobbed by a throng of over 10,000 people
who stood in the rain to catch their first glimpse of the tiny Cunarder.
Carpathia surprised everyone by passing her own pier, No. 54, and continued
up the North River to the White Star piers, 59 and 60. There she offloaded the
thirteen lifeboats she had recovered from the scene of the disaster. This was
an unimaginably eerie sight, and one filled with tragic meaning. They were all
that remained of the great ship … of everything she had been, these little boats
were all that had completed the voyage.
81
Crowds gathered in lower Manhattan by the Cunard Line docks, awaiting the Carpathia’s arrival.
For hours before the Carpathia arrived, crowds had been gathering at the
Cunard pier at the end of Fourteenth Street. Some of these people were there
to find family or friends who survived the sinking … some were just there to
see what they could see … others were newspapermen, looking for a good
story. In anticipation of the large crowds, New York Mayor Gaynor and
Police Commissioner Waldo arranged for a heavy police presence at and near
the pier. They appointed Inspector George McClusky to take charge of crowd
control, and assigned him 200 policemen, including a dozen mounted police
and a number of officers in civilian clothing. Police cordons were set up
hours in advance of the anticipated arrival, in preparation to control the
crowds that were sure to show up, and to keep out those who did not bear
passes from either the government or the Cunard Line.
82
All possible preparations had been made to aid the survivors. The
Municipal Lodging House, which could accommodate 700 people, agreed to
provide food and lodging to the survivors for as long as they needed it. The
Red Cross and Salvation Army were also prepared to help survivors in this
regard. Eva Booth, director of the Salvation Army, waited at the pier to
personally oversee things. When all was said and done, Mayor Gaynor
estimated that more than 5,000 persons could be accommodated in the
lodgings that were offered up, far in excess of what was needed. R. H. Farley,
head of the White Star Line’s Third Class Department, said that the line would
provide all the steerage passengers with railroad tickets to their intended
destinations.
83
By the time the Carpathia finished unloading Titanic’s lifeboats, and
returned to her own berth, the crowd at Pier 54 was estimated to have swelled
to over 30,000 people. None of them were deterred by the rain and poor
weather. There was a long line of automobiles waiting on the pier. Besides
family members of survivors who were waiting to drive their relatives home,
the Waldorf-Astoria had sent over eight limousines to take the following
survivors, among others, back to the hotel: Mary Fortune and her three
daughters, Mary Smith, Ella White, Orian Davidson, Mahala Douglas,
Eleanor Widener and her maid Amalie Gieger, Mary Wick and her daughter
Mary, Caroline Bonnell, Emily Ryerson and her children, John and Mary
Snyder, and Dickinson and Helen Bishop.
At one point, there were 35 ambulances outside the Cunard pier,
representing every hospital in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and the Bronx. St
Vincent’s Hospital sent the largest number, eight in total, and St Luke’s had
also sent several. Similarly, Mrs Virginia Fair Vanderbilt had convinced her
friends to lend their automobiles to be used to meet the Carpathia, and help
transport survivors who needed medical treatment. Through her efforts alone,
multiple limousines and all the Fifth Avenue and Riverside Drive automobile
buses were waiting near the pier.
84
By 9:30 p.m. the liner was docked, and the forward and aft gangways
were put out. Reporters hurried to get their cameras and equipment set up, in
order to take photographs of the scene. Some of the survivors who were in
poor condition were hurried down the gangway first, and into waiting
ambulances. One of these was Thomas Whiteley, who was carried down the
gangway in pajamas, and whisked off.
85 Among the first passengers down the
gangway to shore were survivors from First Class.
Dr Isaac Frauenthal and his wife were immediately taken into an
automobile to leave the pier. As they were hurrying toward the vehicle, a
reporter eager to settle a rumor which had been circulating asked Dr
Frauenthal if Madeleine Astor had indeed died aboard the ship. ‘That is not
true,’ the doctor responded. ‘Mrs Astor was well yesterday.’
Next down the gangway were Mrs Malvina Cornell and her sisters,
Charlotte Appleton and Caroline Brown. They were met by Mr Cornell, who
bundled them away. Soon afterwards, Madeleine Astor, who was wearing a
white sweater, was escorted to the pier by two of the Carpathia’s officers.
William A. Dobbyn, Colonel Astor’s personal secretary, had been waiting on
the pier all evening, and spotted her. Also waiting for her were her stepson
Vincent Astor – her senior by about a year and a half – as well as her sister
Katherine Force, some friends, and two physicians, including Dr Kimball.
Preparations had been made to take her back to Colonel Astor’s house at 840
Fifth Avenue.
86
After greeting his stepmother, Vincent sprinted toward his automobile. It
was a large, black limousine sitting at the front of the line of cars; two other
automobiles, driven to the pier by other members of their group, sat nearby as
escorts. Astor cranked the engine to start it and jumped into the driver’s seat.
As he did so, a reporter asked how Madeleine was. ‘I am delighted to say that
she is far better than I expected to find her,’ was his response. When asked if
he had heard any other good news, he said: ‘I have not yet dared to ask Mrs
Astor any questions.’ Someone asked if there had been any news of Colonel
Astor, to which he said ‘no’.
Meanwhile, Madeleine was emotionally overwhelmed. She was
alternately described as ‘hysterical’ and ‘upon the point of collapse’. Her
sister was forced to support her, and helped her to a bench inside the building.
Katherine was overheard asking: ‘Have you heard from anyone else?’
Madeleine said no, and then began weeping again. It took her five minutes to
regain her composure, at which point she said she was ready to be taken to the
waiting limousine. Once she had climbed in, she was driven off. Later,
reporters were told that she wasn’t suffering from a serious condition, but
‘was suffering greatly from shock and grief’.
87 Following this nearly carnival
scene, the Duff Gordons were spotted leaving Carpathia.
A bit later, the Second Class passengers left the ship and the pier. Lutie
Parrish was carried to a waiting ambulance that was headed to Mount Sinai
Hospital; her daughter Imanita Shelley also climbed in. Acquiescing to their
begging, the driver let the women stop at the King Edward Hotel first – to
allow Shelley to pick up letters from her husband – before taking Mrs Parrish
to the hospital. Fortunately, it was discovered that Mrs Parrish’s foot and leg
were not broken, but just very badly bruised. With rest, she would make a full
recovery.
88
It was around 11:00 p.m. before the Third Class passengers began to
disembark. Eugene Daly had to be helped off the ship due to his frostbitten
feet. As the Third Class passengers started down the gangway, Bertha
Mulvihill was told that she was to be taken to the hospital. She didn’t want to
go … all she wanted was to see her family. She got off the ship and ran into
the crowd on the pier, not knowing if any of her family was there. Since her
return to America was a surprise, she didn’t think that her fiancé Henry knew
she was coming. However, by a quirk of fate, her family had found out that she
was aboard, and both her fiancé and her brother-in-law Ted were waiting for
her when she came ashore.
Two female passengers descend the gangplank and reach shore for the first time since leaving
Europe a week before.
Bertha’s sister Mary described the circumstances in which the family had
discovered she was on the ill-fated ship: ‘We didn’t know she was aboard at
all until Henry read her name among those saved in the Evening Bulletin
Tuesday night … He was reading the list of those on the boat when his eyes
came up Bert’s [Bertha’s nickname] name. He nearly fainted. Then he rushed
over to my house … [and] told my husband and me that Bert was on the
Titanic.’
When Bertha saw her two loved ones waiting for her, she was overcome
with joy. After a joyous greeting, they rushed her over to Grand Central
Station to start the journey back to Providence, Rhode Island. During the trip
home, Bertha broke down crying as she recounted her experiences. Once
home, a doctor from Providence City Hospital treated her injuries, and told
her she must eat sparingly and only liquid foods. He wouldn’t allow her to
sleep right away ‘for fear that during her sleep she would review the scenes
of the disaster, and upon waking, would not be right in the mind.’ Bertha’s
sister sent a cablegram home to their mother in Ireland on April 19, 1912,
conveying the simple message: ‘Bertha safe – Mary.’89
Finally, the Titanic’s crew were taken off the Carpathia. They were put
aboard the U.S. Immigration Service Tender George Starr, to be taken north
to Pier 60. Debarking there, they were put aboard the Red Star Line’s
Lapland as Phillip A. S. Franklin had arranged, and were assigned cabins, in
preparation for being sent back home to Britain.
90
Before all the crew and passengers of the Titanic had left the rescue ship,
several purposeful-looking men boarded Carpathia. Senator William Alden
Smith and Senator Francis G. Newlands were directed to the cabin where
White Star Chairman Bruce Ismay had been in seclusion for the entire trip
back to New York. Captain Rostron had only escorted Phillip A. S. Franklin
down to Ismay’s room about ten minutes before news reached him that Senator
Smith was aboard.91
Ismay had already attempted to make arrangements to
leave the United States aboard the Cedric shortly after they were due to arrive
in New York; additionally, in many of the newspapers, Ismay had come off as
the scapegoat of the disaster. Senator Smith wanted to make sure that Ismay,
and the crew of Titanic, were questioned before they could leave the country.
Left with no choice in the matter, Ismay agreed to Smith’s demand that he and
the other witnesses would remain and give evidence.
One of the first things Ismay did after arriving in New York was to issue
instructions that no International Mercantile Marine ships were to leave port
without a sufficient number of boats to accommodate every person on board.92
The other major shipping companies had also voluntarily decided to provide
enough boats for everyone aboard their ships, and did so without any rulings
by the British Board of Trade. The decision by the companies was announced
by Sydney Buxton in the House of Commons on April 23, 1912.93
The next men to board Carpathia were the head of the Marconi
International Marine Communication Company, Guglielmo Marconi, and Jim
Speers, a reporter from The New York Times. Both men were there to speak
with Harold Bride. Shortly before Carpathia docked at the Cunard pier,
Harold Bride and Harold Cottam had received wireless messages sent from
Seagate Station, at the Narrows, New York Harbor. These had been sent by
Frederick M. Sammis, Chief Engineer of the Marconi Company. The first
message said: ‘Say, old man, Marconi Co. taking good care of you. Keep your
mouth shut and hold your story. It is fixed for you so you will get big money.
Do your best to clear [the remaining messages].’ Guglielmo Marconi himself
had agreed that Bride and Cottam should be allowed to sell the exclusive
report of their personal experiences. It was known that the two Marconi
operators were exhausted, and it was thought that if they were given this
news, ‘maybe it will spur them on and make them feel better.’ Shortly after the
first message, another wireless message was received, telling the men:
‘Arranged for your exclusive story for dollars in four figures. Mr Marconi
agreeing. Say nothing until you see me …’ The exact amount being offered
was $1,000 overall for both men’s stories.
94
After Marconi and Speers boarded Carpathia, they found Bride sitting in
the wireless room with his bandaged and injured feet propped up. He was
still transmitting messages, trying to help Harold Cottam clear the large mass
of them which had built up during the Carpathia’s voyage to New York.
Cottam himself had already left the ship at Mr Sammis’ request, and would
subsequently meet him at the Strand Hotel, presumably to dictate his story to a
New York Times reporter there. Bride was so absorbed in his work that he
didn’t even notice the two men come in. His skin was drawn so tightly over
his face that the bones in his face protruded, and his eyes appeared sunken-in.
To Speers, Bride’s face looked ‘spiritual, one which might be expected in a
painting’. Marconi listened to what Bride was sending for a moment, before
saying: ‘That’s hardly worth sending now, boy.’
Bride looked up, and immediately recognized the famous inventor, who
was a personal hero of sorts. He held out his hand, which Marconi grasped
and held warmly. Bride said: ‘Mr Marconi, Phillips is dead. He’s gone.’
Marconi offered some words of comfort, and in addition to congratulating
Bride on his survival and thanking him for his hard work and assistance, he
told Bride that if he was offered money for his story, he should take it. The
Marconi Company, not White Star, were the employers of Bride. Speers,
taking out his notepad and pencil, confirmed that the New York Times was
willing to pay Bride $500 for his story. Bride agreed, dictating the story of his
survival. When published on April 19, 1912, Bride’s account filled five
columns on the front page of the New York Times.
95
That night, the crowds eventually dispersed. Pier 54 finally became nearly
deserted. Only a few people were left behind to clear up the debris and dirt
from the near mob-scene. Crowd control gates were removed and stored
away. Soon, all tell-tale traces of the epic scene which had played out on the
new Cunard pier had been removed. It was almost as if nothing unusual had
ever occurred there …
The Carpathia’s own passengers, who along with the crew had been so
helpful to the Titanic’s survivors during the preceding four days, were
encouraged to go ashore while the Carpathia was cleaned and loaded with
supplies. By 4:00 p.m. on April 19, the plucky little Cunarder was headed
back to sea to complete her voyage to the Mediterranean, a voyage which had
been so unimaginably interrupted by the disaster. There were a ‘small army of
sightseers’ at the pier to see Carpathia off, and they cheered the ship as she
got under way. The vessel’s flag was at half mast, as were all the flags visible
from the pier.
96
Shortly before Carpathia headed back to sea, there was still one member
of Titanic’s crew who had not yet left: Harold Bride, who had continued
working the wireless due to the backlog of messages. Because of Bride’s
badly sprained ankle and frostbitten feet, he had to be carried ashore on the
shoulders of two of Carpathia’s officers.
According to press reports, over 140 of the survivors were transported to
area hospitals for treatment, after their arrival in New York. Most of these
survivors had very minor injuries, or had suffered from exposure or shock,
and all were expected to recover.
97 Very few were seriously injured enough
that a lengthy hospital stay was required, but over 100 had been taken to St
Vincent’s Hospital.
98 Among these were Harold Bride, Fireman John
Thompson, Trimmer William McIntyre, Saloon Steward Thomas Whiteley,
First Class passenger Peter Daly, Second Class passenger Emilio Pallas y
Castillo, as well as Third Class passengers Rhoda Abbott, Thomas
McCormack, and Anna Kelly. Several other survivors, including George
Rheims and Bertha Mulvihill, were supposed to have been taken to the
hospital, but instead sought medical care from family doctors or practitioners
elsewhere.
While the survivors were resting and recovering in St Vincent’s Hospital,
Cardinal John Farley canceled any celebrations of his seventieth birthday,
which was on April 20, in order to visit those who were hospitalized. He
spent over an hour comforting the survivors, and for ‘each he had a word of
consolation’. Afterwards, the Cardinal returned to his home, where it was
said ‘it was evident that he was greatly saddened.’
He remarked that ‘it was indeed an appalling disaster and one that is hard
to look back on,’ and paid tribute to the men and women who had died, saying
that ‘the splendid bravery which they showed was something that the world
will never cease to admire … especially the men who gave up their lives that
women might be rescued … There were the women who refused to go into the
lifeboats too, who preferred to remain and face death with their husbands.
These are some of the cases which should prove an inspiration to the world.
The resignation with which they awaited death was truly Christian. There was
no panic, no wild despair. They felt that they were in the hands of God, and
were resigned to their fate. That is the way it will be looked upon when this
great disaster becomes history.’99
Harold Bride is carried off the Carpathia, his badly frozen feet wrapped in thick bandages.
Fireman John Thompson, Saloon Steward Thomas Whiteley, Trimmer William McIntyre, and Second
Class passenger Emilio Pallas y Castillo at St Vincent’s Hospital following the sinking.
Survivors on the forward deck of the Carpathia as she sat at Pier 54 in Manhattan.
* * * * *
Around the world, memorial services were organized in remembrance of the
victims of the Titanic disaster. In London on Friday, April 19, a large
memorial service was held in St Paul’s Cathedral. Over 5,000 people
attended, including Alexander Carlisle, one of Titanic’s designers. Nearly
twice that number of people had crowded outside of the cathedral, hoping to
get in. The service, culminating with the ‘Dead March’ from Händel’s ‘Saul’,
was described as highly emotional and touching, with many of the attendants
openly crying or sobbing. People who attended described it as a
‘congregation truly representative of the grief of the nation, and, indeed, of
many nations, whose citizens are among the roll of the missing.’ Carlisle, who
occupied a seat in the choir, ‘appeared deeply affected,’ and fainted, falling
back into his chair. Help was summoned, and an ambulance soon arrived, but
by then Carlisle had recovered sufficiently to be driven home.’100
While efforts to memorialize and remember those lost were taking place,
other efforts were underway to aid the living. In the days immediately
following the disaster, New York Mayor Gaynor and the Red Cross
established a relief fund, to help aid the survivors and families of those lost
following their ordeal. By April 21, 1912, the relief fund had already
received over $77,342.75 in donations. Many people gave small donations,
but one of the biggest contributors was Vincent Astor, who donated $10,000 to
the fund, with the message: ‘Will you please accept the enclosed check as a
contribution from me to the fund for the needy survivors of the Titanic
disaster?’ Mayor Gaynor wrote a very complimentary thank you letter for the
donation:
Dear Mr Astor:
Your generous contribution to the fund for the relief of the survivors of
the Titanic disaster and of the dependents of those who lost their lives
is at hand.
Permit me to express to Mrs Astor and to the whole family through
you my sympathy with you all in the great loss which you have
sustained. My acquaintance with your father was a most agreeable
one, and the oftener I met him the more his generous, superior,
democratic qualities grew on me. He was a man among men. The
heroic way in which he met his death, disregarding himself and
looking to the safety of others, is exactly what every one well
acquainted with him knew to be the case even before authentic
accounts were received.
Sincerely yours,
W. J. Gaynor, Mayor101
A program for Wallace Hartley’s memorial service, May 18, 1912.
* * * * *
After Carpathia resumed her voyage to Europe, another survivors’ committee
was formed to recognize her crew. This committee, headed by Mr Frederic
Steward, supplemented the previously donated funds, and used them to
purchase a silver loving cup for Captain Rostron, as well as special medals
for all 320 of Carpathia’s crewmen. Carpathia arrived back in New York
again on May 29, and Margaret Brown presented the cup and medals to
Rostron and the crew who were still aboard the ship at that time. Sixty medals
were mailed to the crewmembers who had left the Carpathia since the
sinking.
* * * * *
For the crew and passengers of Titanic, though the danger to life was over,
they all still had to put their lives back together. For one Titanic survivor,
there was still some important unfinished business. On April 19, Bedroom
Steward Henry Etches fulfilled the promise that he had made to Benjamin
Guggenheim: he delivered the dictated message from the deceased millionaire
to his widow, Florence Seligman. Calling on the family at the St Regis Motel,
Etches insisted that he had to deliver the message to Mrs Guggenheim in
person.
The family, including Benjamin’s brother Robert, had been hoping for
news of their loved one, whom the press had reported was among the missing
prior to Carpathia’s arrival in New York. That terrible piece of news had
been confirmed by a wireless dispatch sent from Carpathia and received late
on April 18.102 After relating how Benjamin had been one of his charges
during the voyage, Etches told them about their relative’s chivalrous actions,
and of the final favor Guggenheim had asked of him. Etches, producing the
note and handing it to the widow, reported: ‘That’s all he said, there wasn’t
time for more.’ The family was very grateful for the news and visit.
103
For most of the crew, the most important thing was to get back to work, as
their pay stopped the moment the Titanic sank beneath the waves. Some of
these crew members were kept in New York, so they could testify at the
American Inquiry; however, many went back to Britain on the Lapland, which
left on April 20. One crewman, Leading Fireman Frederick Barrett, returned
to work right away despite his ordeal; he got a berth on the Olympic fairly
rapidly once he got home, and was back in New York on May 25. On that day,
Senator Smith of the Senate Inquiry interviewed him in one of the Olympic’s
boiler rooms.
For many wives and mothers who had lost husbands, things looked grim.
They had no money, and they had little reason to continue on to where the
family had intended to go. However, some cases had a happy ending. Two
little French boys had been saved in Collapsible D, and were being cared for
in America by survivor Margaret Hays. The boys, Michel and Edmond, did
not speak English; they had been placed in the lifeboat by their father, Michel
Navratil, who had then stepped back onto the deck and perished. Navratil,
who was estranged from his wife, had kidnapped the children and was fleeing
to America. Since the boys couldn’t speak English, no one knew who they
were. In the aftermath of the sinking and rescue, photos of the two unknown
‘Titanic Orphans’ were published in papers around the world, and their
mother, still in Southern France, saw and recognized them. The White Star
Line made arrangements, and Mrs Navratil came to America, where she was
reunited with her children on May 16. The family then returned to France.
104
* * * * *
The fallout from the Titanic disaster was both immediate and dramatic. While
shipping companies had previously been loathe to carry enough boats for all
on board, they quickly changed their tune – even before any laws or
regulations mandated such a drastic, but long overdue, move. This was done
partially out of legitimate concern that another similar disaster could occur,
and also to reassure potential passengers, many of whom were then reluctant
to travel aboard crack ships in light of the disaster. The decision by the
companies led to a rush to supplement the number of lifeboats aboard the
vessels, and one of the quickest solutions was to place additional collapsible
boats aboard the ships from other vessels, or storage.
Such was the case with Titanic’s sister ship Olympic, which was due to
set sail from Southampton on April 24, 1912. The nearly-identical sister to
Titanic, she was then facing an enormous stigma, and it turned out that a few
collapsibles was not sufficient to erase these doubts.
Concerns over the seaworthiness and quality of the forty second-hand
collapsibles that were taken from troopships and rushed onto the Olympic led
to significant problems. Following a morning lifeboat drill where the boats
passed inspection by the British Board of Trade, the firemen and greasers
aboard the ship expressed concern with the safety of the boats. Nothing could
pacify them, and they decided to strike, refusing to sail unless the collapsibles
in question were replaced by regulation lifeboats.
A group of Carpathia’s officers pose with Captain Rostron.
Margaret Brown presents Captain Rostron with a silver loving cup.
A Carpathia menu from 1913.
Among their complaints against the collapsibles were the concerns that
some could not be opened up easily because they had many thick layers of
paint on them; that they were old boats that had not been opened up in years
and were in poor condition; that they took too long to lower; that one of the
collapsibles shipped a small amount of water during the drill. Additionally, in
one instance, a fireman was easily able to put his thumb through the canvas
side of one of the boats while examining it.
Loading extra collapsible lifeboats aboard the Olympic in Southampton, in preparation for her
first post-Titanic crossing.
Discontent with the new collapsible lifeboats, some of Olympic’s firemen go on strike minutes
before the sailing.
Five minutes prior to sailing, all of the stokers and greasers grabbed their
kits, and marched down the gangways and off the ship. All of the passengers
were already aboard the Olympic, and this development must have been
humiliating for the White Star Line, which was already reeling from the
Titanic disaster. The strikers had called out to the sailors and other members
of the Deck Department, hoping that they would join them in the strike, but
Captain Haddock had the gangways to shore removed before the other men
had a chance to leave.
After the strikers had disembarked, a deputation of five firemen and five
greasers met with Mr Curry, the local manager of the White Star Line. In the
presence of Commander Blake, the Emigration Officer, they said that they
were not satisfied with the collapsible boats. Blake responded that he had
examined the boats, and that he was perfectly satisfied with them. He offered
to take the Olympic down to Cowes, to let the men select any boats that they
pleased, and to give a demonstration of their seaworthiness. Members of the
deputation refused, fearing that if the crewmen returned to the ship, they
would not be allowed to leave. Curry told them that they had five minutes to
decide, and the spokesmen held an impromptu meeting on the quay with their
fellow strikers, who unanimously decided not to return to the ship.
Rather than trying to negotiate further, the White Star Line looked for
volunteers among the crowds of men on the quay to work as replacement
firemen. Only about twenty men took the offer. After the delay in Olympic’s
departure reached a full hour, the ship was towed down Southampton Water,
where she would stay until additional firemen could be found to work the
voyage. At 9:00 p.m., a tug boat brought forty non-union firemen aboard. The
striking firemen and greasers left the dock ‘in procession’. Leading Stoker
Gregory, one of the spokesmen for the strikers, said that he himself didn’t care
about the lifeboats, as he was unmarried, but many of the men had wives and
families, and their lives were as valuable as any First Class passenger.
Meanwhile, passengers who were supposed to have boarded the Olympic in
Cherbourg that evening decided to wait there overnight, hoping that the vessel
would arrive the following morning, but it did not.
By April 25, a deputation from the strikers’ union arrived on the scene,
and observed a demonstration of the seaworthiness of the collapsible boats.
The demonstration was quite satisfactory. The deputation stated that they
would recommend a return to work, provided that one of the collapsibles,
which had leaked during the test, was replaced. However, the strikers were
still wary, and during the lifeboat demonstration, seamen had noticed a rent in
one of the boats, which shook their confidence.
Despite the near-resolution of the strike, the situation again worsened
when it was discovered that around midnight, the White Star Line had used a
tugboat to bring groups of non-union firemen aboard Olympic. Learning of the
presence of these strikebreakers, a large group of seamen and Quartermasters
objected to the decision. Captain Haddock then told the men that if ‘anybody
wanted to go ashore they could go’, clearly anticipating that most would stay.
The men took a ballot, and after discussion, decided that they would all go
ashore.
Early in the morning of April 26, 53 men – mostly seamen and
Quartermasters – deserted, jumping into the tug that had dropped off the
replacement firemen. They stated that they would not sail with a ‘scratch
crew’, their term for a group of highly untrained individuals and substitutes,
many of whom could not provide documentation that they had ever been to sea
as firemen. The deserters said that they were not going to ‘risk their lives with
men in the stokehold who knew nothing about their work’. Because of the lack
of crew aboard Olympic, even some stewards were to have been sent down to
help stoke the ship during the voyage, a job which they were not qualified for.
Captain Haddock was furious, and when the seamen failed to heed his
orders to return to the ship, he signaled the cruiser HMS Cochrane. The
commander of the cruiser, Captain Goodenough, went aboard Olympic and
told the strikers that their action was ‘virtually a mutinous one’. When his
words had no effect, the police were fetched from Portsmouth. All 53 seamen
and Quartermasters were taken into custody, and charged in court at
Portsmouth Town Hall with ‘unlawfully disobeying the commands of the
captain’. They were remanded on bail, pending a hearing on the following
Tuesday.
Due to this humiliating setback, the White Star Line had to cancel
Olympic’s voyage, and ordered the ship back to Southampton. The passengers
aboard the liner were indignant over the whole affair. The White Star Line
issued an official statement to the public expressing their regret about the
situation, and imploring the public’s ‘support in efforts we intend making, to
secure the proper punishment of the crew’s mutinous behavior, as unless
firmness is shown now we despair of restoring discipline and maintain
sailings.’ The decision to cancel the voyage distressed Southampton greatly.
The shipping lines were the port’s lifeblood, and people were anxious about
the possible fallout from the strike.
It was reported on April 29, 1912, that the local branch of the Seamen and
Firemen’s Union decided that from that day forward, seamen and firemen on
every ship leaving Liverpool would insist upon the right of inspection of
lifeboat accommodations by accredited representatives from the union; they
also demanded an increase of wages to £4 10s per month for seamen, and £5
per month for firemen. The press also reported that the people waiting to
embark on Olympic in Cherbourg, France, had booked on other liners when
the voyage was cancelled; many had climbed the gangplanks of ships
belonging to rival passenger lines. This was only to be expected, but it
certainly was stinging news to White Star officials.
On April 30, 1912, the 53 seamen and Quartermasters were back in court
in Portsmouth, and all pleaded ‘not guilty’ to the charges against them. Mr
Raeburn, the prosecutor, made the case that the crewmembers in question had
blatantly disregarded Captain Haddock’s orders. Mr Emanuel, the defense
lawyer, argued that the men were placed under arrest before any warrant was
issued, and therefore had been seized illegally. When Olympic’s Purser,
George Borradaile, was asked whether he could identify any of the men in
court with the offenders listed in Olympic’s log, he pointed at one or two
people. As the accused men were about to reply, Mr Emanuel told them:
‘Don’t say anything at all. Take no notice whatever.’ Purser Borradaile turned
and ‘found himself facing a double row of smiling seamen’s faces’. All of the
men refused to speak, and the case was adjourned until May 4, 1912.
Eventually, on May 6, the 53 deserters were found guilty of having refused
Captain Haddock’s orders, but they were allowed to go free unpunished. The
Bench felt that the Titanic disaster was fresh on the defendants’ minds, and
that the men had done something they would not have done under ordinary
circumstances. Therefore, they took action under the Probation of Offenders
Act, and dismissed the information without giving any punishment. With the
Olympic firemen’s strike concluded, the men were free to return to work, and
the ship was able to resume its transatlantic crossings. As she sailed from
Southampton on May 15, 1912, it was a great relief to everyone involved.105
* * * * *
Even before the Carpathia had docked in New York and offloaded its cargo
of human survivors, the White Star Line realized that they had another
problem to deal with, and it was a time-sensitive one, at that. With a total of
1,496 victims from the disaster, it was clear that hundreds of bodies were still
afloat on the open North Atlantic. It would be important to recover as many of
these as possible and return them to their grieving families. Accordingly,
White Star made arrangements for a ship and a team of undertakers. The ship
would be provided by the Commercial Cable Company of Halifax, Nova
Scotia. John Snow & Company, Ltd – the largest undertaking firm in the
province – was engaged to recover and embalm the bodies.
By early on Wednesday, April 17, the cable ship Mackay-Bennett left
Halifax en route to the sinking coordinates. In a wireless dated Saturday,
April 20, the vessel reported that they had been contacted by the North
German Lloyd Liner Rhein; the German vessel had passed wreckage and
bodies to the northeast of the disaster site, and the Mackay-Bennett
accordingly made for that position, expecting to arrive at 8:00 p.m. that night.
She was also contacted by the Bremen, which reported spotting debris and
well over a hundred bodies at nearly the same location on April 20.
After receiving these messages, Bruce Ismay issued the following
statement:
The cable ship Mackay-Bennett has been chartered by the White Star
Line and ordered to proceed to the scene of the disaster and do all she
could to recover the bodies and glean all information possible.
Every effort will be made to identify bodies recovered, and any
news will be sent through immediately by wireless. In addition to any
such message as these, the Mackay-Bennett will make a report of its
activities each morning by wireless, and such reports will be made
public at the offices of the White Star Line.
The cable ship has orders to remain on the scene of the wreck for at
least a week, but should a large number of bodies be recovered before
that time she will return to Halifax with them. The search for bodies
will not be abandoned until not a vestige of hope remains for any more
recoveries.
The Mackay-Bennett will not make any soundings, as they would
not serve any useful purpose, because the depth where the Titanic sank
is more than 2000 fathoms.
When the Bremen arrived back in port, her officers reported to the public that
from the Bridge, they had seen over a hundred bodies floating in the sea, as
well as the upturned and adrift Collapsible B, small pieces of wood, steamer
chairs, and other wreckage. Since the Mackay-Bennett was nearby, and since
Bremen did not have the facilities or supplies needed to deal with the bodies,
they did not retrieve any of the corpses.
While Bremen’s officers did not care to talk in further detail about the
tragic spectacle they had witnessed, Johanna Steinke, a First Class passenger
aboard Bremen, described the scene in graphic detail:
… our ship sighted an iceberg off the bow to the starboard. As we
drew nearer, and could make out small dots floating around in the sea,
a feeling of awe and sadness crept over everyone on the ship.
We passed within a hundred feet of the southernmost drift of the
wreckage, and looking down over the rail we distinctly saw a number
of bodies so clearly that we could make out what they were wearing
and whether they were men or women.
We saw one woman in her night dress, with a baby clasped closely
to her breast. Several women passengers screamed and left the rail in
a fainting condition. There was another woman, fully dressed, with her
arms tight around the body of a shaggy dog.
The bodies of three men in a group, all clinging to one steamship
chair, floated near by, and just beyond them were a dozen bodies of
men, all of them encased in life-preservers, clinging together as though
in a last desperate struggle for life. We couldn’t see, but imagined that
under them was some bit of wreckage to which they all clung when the
ship went down, and which didn’t have buoyancy enough to support
them.
Those were the only bodies we passed near enough to distinguish,
but we could see the white life-preservers of many more dotting the
sea, all the way to the iceberg. The officers told us that was probably
the berg hit by the Titanic, and that the bodies and ice had drifted
along together.
Collapsible B was found adrift by the crew of the cable ship Mackay-Bennett while they were on
their mission to recover bodies of the Titanic victims.
Mrs Steinke reported that a number of passengers demanded that the Bremen
stop and pick up the bodies, but the officers assured them that the MackayBennett was only two hours away, and was heading towards the scene for that
exact purpose.
106
In the meanwhile, numerous other ships also began reporting this floating
graveyard. For example, the Winifredian reported seeing a body floating
about 25 miles from the reported position of Titanic’s sinking.
107
By Sunday, April 21, the Mackay-Bennett had reached the area reported
by Bremen, and immediately began picking up bodies. They recovered 51
persons on that day, 26 on April 22, 128 more on April 23, 87 on April 25,
and 14 more on April 26. Some bodies were recovered over 170 miles from
the scene of the wreck. Captain F. H. Lardner then had the ship turned around,
and headed back to Halifax. When they arrived in port on Tuesday, April 30,
they were able to report that they had found 306 bodies in all. Some 116 were
buried at sea, while 190 were brought back to land.
Among the more prominent passengers whose bodies were recovered
were Colonel Astor and Isidor Straus. Purser McElroy’s body was also
recovered.108 As a general rule, all identifiable bodies of First Class
passengers were embalmed and brought back to shore no matter what their
condition. On the other hand, bodies of passengers from Second and Third
Class, and those of crew members, were recovered and embalmed based on
condition.
Those that were to be taken back to Halifax were packed in ice until
Undertaker John Snow, Jr could do his work. Bodies that were mangled,
deteriorated, or unidentifiable were sealed in weighted canvas bags, given
impromptu funerals, and buried at sea. The words recited during these burial
services were: ‘I am the resurrection and the life, with the Lord; he that
believeth in me, tho’ he were dead, yet shall he live, and whosover liveth and
believeth in me shall never die.’ When the time for the committal came, the
following words were recited over each body before they slid overboard:
For as much as it hath pleased Almighty God to take unto Himself the
soul of our dear brother departed, we therefore commit his body to the
deep to be turned to corruption, looking for the resurrection of the
body (when the sea shall give up her dead) and the life of the world to
come, through Jesus Christ, our Lord, who shall change our vile body,
that it may be like unto His glorious body, according to the mighty
working whereby He is able to subdue all things to himself.
The same services and verses were read over and over again. Most of the
bodies that were recovered were in decent condition. Nearly all appeared to
have frozen to death, with very few having drowned. Some had been mangled
during the liner’s violent break-up and sinking, but most of the bodies were
floating with serene looks on their faces, as if they were sleeping. All but one
of the bodies, that of a 2-year-old boy, were recovered wearing lifebelts.
Besides bodies, several floating deck chairs, and multiple pieces of floating
wooden debris were recovered as mementoes by Mackay-Bennett’s crew.
109
While the Mackay-Bennett was still at the disaster site, a second cable
ship, the Minia, was chartered to assist in the recovery of bodies. The Minia
departed Halifax on Monday, April 22, and body recovery started on Friday,
April 26. Eleven bodies were found and picked up that day, and one each was
found on April 27, 28, 29, and 30. After picking up two more bodies on
Wednesday, May 1, the Minia sailed for Halifax. She reached port on May 6
with 15 bodies, as two of those recovered had been buried at sea.
The body of a Titanic victim being recovered by crewmen from the Minia three weeks after the
disaster.
Titanic’s lifeboats tied up between Piers 59 and 60.
This rare view inside two of Titanic’s recovered lifeboats shows that they were littered with
discarded oars and lifebelts.
Collapsible A was found adrift and was recovered by the crew of the White Star Line’s Oceanic one
month after the disaster. Three bodies were still aboard.
The Montmagny left Halifax that same day, Monday, May 6. Arriving at
the site on Thursday, May 9, she was only able to find one body before that
day was out, and three more on Friday, May 10. She returned to Halifax on
Monday, May 13.
The fourth and final ship chartered and sent out to the wreck site was the
sealer Algerine. She was dispatched from St Johns, Nova Scotia, on May 16,
and recovered only one body. The victim was returned to St Johns on June 8,
and was subsequently transshipped to Halifax.
A total of 209 bodies were brought back to Halifax, and were stored in a
curling rink. People from all over the United States, and elsewhere, made the
sad trip to claim them there. President Taft, hoping that Major Archibald
Butt’s body had been recovered, sent a member of the War Department to
investigate. Sadly, he returned empty handed. Of the recovered bodies, 59
were shipped on to other points at the request of the victims’ families. The
remaining 150 were laid to rest in three Halifax cemeteries: Fairview, Mount
Olivet, and Baron von Hirsch.
110
Unfortunately, despite the best efforts of the crew of the Mackay-Bennett,
not all of the bodies could be found. Many continued to drift on the currents,
held afloat by their lifebelts, and were scattered over a wide area. One
particularly sad incident involving these bodies was told by some
Scandinavian immigrants en route to Minnesota, who related how ‘in several
instances, bodies were struck by our boat and knocked from the water several
feet into the air’. The incident was so disturbing that a transcription of the
account was sent to President Taft.
111
On May 13, the White Star liner Oceanic found Titanic’s Collapsible A
still afloat, and drifting in the North Atlantic. On board the collapsible, they
found the three bodies Fifth Officer Lowe had left behind on the morning of
April 15. The bodies were those of two unidentified crewmen – a sailor and a
fireman – and also First Class passenger Thomson Beattie. All three were
buried at sea from the Oceanic. Collapsible A itself was hauled aboard and
taken to New York; there it joined the thirteen other Titanic lifeboats in the
loft above Piers 58 and 59.
One of the items found in the bottom of the boat included a ring reported
as having the names ‘Edward and Gerda’ on it. It apparently belonged to
Edvard and Elin Lindell, as Elin’s middle name was Gerda. It seems that the
ring had slipped off and fallen into the boat as August Wennerström clutched
Elin’s hand, struggling to keep her afloat while they awaited rescue.
Additionally, Richard Norris Williams’ fur coat was found in the bottom of
the boat, and later returned to him.
112
On June 6, the body of Saloon Steward William Thomas Kerley was
found and buried at sea by the Ottawa.
113 Just two days later, the eastbound
freighter Illford discovered the body of Titanic steward W. F. Cheverton. The
body was recommitted to the sea.
114
This collapsible lifeboat was recovered by an Elders & Fyffes ship in the Bahamas a year and a
half after the disaster. It was thought to have been one of Titanic’s collapsible boats, having drifted
on with the currents, but it is difficult to tell with certainty.
In all, 712 people survived the sinking. Four people were buried at sea
from the Carpathia. The four ‘funeral ships’ listed above found a combined
total of 328 bodies; the Oceanic, Ottawa and Illford retrieved an additional
five. In sum, about 337 bodies were accounted for; when one adds the number
of survivors, the total accounted for is 1,049 of the 2,208 people Titanic
carried when she left her last port of call, Queenstown. Some 1,159 bodies
were never accounted for. These were either never found on the surface of the
North Atlantic, or had sunk with the ship.115
* * * * *
Even before the Carpathia docked in New York, United States authorities
were preparing to detain and interrogate survivors. Their goal was to
ascertain the circumstances surrounding the disaster and determine who – if
anyone – was to blame for the loss of so many lives, many of whom had been
American citizens.
The desire to detain the survivors was urgent since it was known to these
authorities that Bruce Ismay was attempting to arrange a swift return to
England for he and the surviving crew members. Senator William Alden
Smith had been appointed to chair a committee to investigate the sinking.
During his visit to Ismay aboard the Carpathia, Senator Smith revealed his
plans for the investigation.
In a startling display of bureaucratic efficiency, the Senate Inquiry
convened the very next day, Friday, April 19, at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in
New York. The inquiry proceeded under the direct supervision of Senator
Smith. There would be a veritable parade of witnesses, and the first called to
testify was Bruce Ismay himself. The Inquiry lasted eighteen days, continuing
until May 25. The first two days’ sessions were held at the Waldorf-Astoria in
New York. Beginning on the third day of testimony, April 22, the witnesses
and assessors were moved to Washington, D.C. for further investigation.
A total of 82 witnesses testified over the course of the Inquiry, and almost
two dozen statements from other survivors and knowledgeable parties were
entered into the record. In addition to Bruce Ismay, all four of the Titanic’s
surviving officers testified. So did many crew members – including those
involved with working in the boiler and engine rooms, and those who helped
evacuate passengers and lower the lifeboats. Also of note, many passengers of
all classes gave evidence. Other key witnesses who had been involved in the
story were also called, including Captain Arthur Rostron and Marconi
Operator Harold Cottam of the Cunarder Carpathia, who gave the details of
their rescue efforts. Captain Stanley Lord of the Leyland liner Californian
also appeared to answer allegations that his ship had been the one visible to
Titanic throughout the sinking, and that the crew had neglected to respond to
Titanic’s distress signals the night of the sinking. Over 1,150 pages of
testimony and affidavits were taken, covering many aspects of the disaster and
providing a valuable body of testimony.
The final report of the Senate Inquiry was released on May 28, 1912. Its
findings were:
The steamship Californian had been closer to Titanic than the 19
miles reported by her Captain, Stanley Lord; that Titanic’s distress
signals were observed by the Californian, and that the officers and
crew failed to respond properly to them.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Titanic was equipped with lifeboat capacity for 1,178 persons, but
carried well over that number in passengers and crew. Only a few of
the lifeboats were fully loaded upon lowering, thereby saving only
706. [This was an erroneous number, as more recent research has
proven there were actually 712 survivors.]
There was no apparent distinction or discrimination in how
passengers were saved, whether First, Second, or Third Class.
Marconi coverage was inadequate.
Recommendations for future revisions to safety guidelines, laws, and
regulations were also given:
Sufficient lifeboats for accommodating all crew and passengers
aboard ships should be provided.
No less than four trained crewmembers were to be assigned to each
lifeboat, with drills being carried out at least twice a month.
Passengers and crew members should be assigned to each lifeboat.
Ocean steamships of over 100 passengers should be required to carry
two electric searchlights.
A Marconi operator should be required to be on duty at all times.
Direct communication between the Marconi office and the Bridge
should also be required, so that a Marconi operator does not have to
leave his station to send important communications to the Bridge.
Legislation was also recommended to prevent interference by
amateurs. Auxiliary power was needed for the Marconi apparatus.
Firing of rockets at sea for any purpose other than for distress should
be a misdemeanor.
Watertight bulkheads should continue up to the uppermost continuous
structural deck, and then that deck itself should be watertight.
116
Friday, April 19, 1912. J. Bruce Ismay giving testimony at the American Inquiry. The proceedings
were being held in the ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
Saturday, April 20, 1912. Harold Bride gives testimony to the American Inquiry.
Stewards F. Dent Ray (left) and William Burke (right) with another surviving Titanic crewman. The
photo was taken at the American Inquiry in Washington, D.C. on Saturday, April 27, 1912. By the
process of elimination, the unidentified man in this photo has to be either Andrew Cunningham or
Alfred Crawford; this is because the only other crewmen who testified that day were Henry Etches
and Arthur Bright, who had mustaches at the time, and Second Officer Lightoller.
Third Officer Herbert Pitman, with relatives, after arriving back home in England aboard the
Adriatic.
Lord Mersey (right), who chaired the Board of Trade Inquiry into the sinking.
On the other side of the Atlantic, the British Board of Trade had started
planning their own Inquiry nearly immediately after hearing word of the
disaster. Wishing to act promptly, on April 22, 1912, Sydney Buxton – the
President of the British Board of Trade – had requested that a Wreck
Commissioner be appointed to investigate the disaster. On April 24, while
being questioned in the House of Commons, Buxton discussed the urgency
with which revisions to regulations would need to be made in light of the
disaster. He said: ‘There will not be a moment’s delay in preparing and
issuing revised regulations with regard to the number of boats and lifesaving
appliances, but it is desirable to act in the light of the fullest information and
the best expert advice.’117 That is one of the main reasons why expert
witnesses were called during the British Inquiry.
Under Wreck Commissioner Lord Mersey, the British Inquiry convened at
the Drill Hall of the London Scottish Regiment at Buckingham Gate on May 1.
Testimony continued over 36 days, and ended on July 3, with the final session
being transplanted to London’s Caxton Hall. Many of the crew who testified
in the United States were also questioned in London, including the four
surviving officers. Bruce Ismay testified again, along with Rostron and
Cottam from the Carpathia, Captain Lord and several of the officers of the
Californian, and a number of other ship captains – over 100 witnesses in
total. One very glaring omission was that no passengers testified at the British
Inquiry, with the exception of First Class passengers Sir Cosmo and Lady
•
•
•
•
•
•
Duff Gordon and Bruce Ismay, who had technically been a passenger on the
ship.
The Wreck Commission presented their findings in a report on July 30.
The report of the British Inquiry found:
Titanic was built according to the rules and policies of the Merchant
Shipping Acts, 1894–1906. The lifeboat capacity complied with these
rules. [In fact, Titanic exceeded the regulations in terms of lifeboat
capacity at the time of the sinking.]
Titanic had been provided with sufficient officers and crew.
The cause of the loss of the Titanic was due to: 1) Collision with
an iceberg; 2) The ship Californian seeing the rockets fired from
Titanic, but making no rescue attempt.
There was no structural reason that any class of passenger had less
of an opportunity than those from another class to reach the deck and
lifeboats.
Like the Senate Inquiry Final Report, the British Inquiry final report also
made several recommendations for the future:
Bulkheads and watertight sub-divisions should be enhanced.
Lifeboat capacity should be increased to provide space for all persons
aboard a vessel.
Adequate crewmen should be trained in lifeboat lowering and rowing.
A boat drill should be held as soon as practical after a vessel leaves
port.
Marconi operations should be worked by a sufficient number of
operators to allow for 24-hour service.
Company regulations should specify that ships should proceed at a
moderate speed in an ice region.
Captains should be instructed that it is a misdemeanor to fail to go to
the relief of a vessel in distress.
118
The Inquiries had shown that the then-standing Board of Trade regulations
were hopelessly out of date, and did not adequately address the realities of
shipping in 1912. The findings of the two Inquiries were taken to heart very
quickly, and changes were soon made on both sides of the Atlantic. As a
result, shipping firms started providing lifeboats for all. For ships then under
construction, watertight subdivision and bulkheads were improved. These
changes affected all liners, particularly the Titanic’s two sisters, Olympic and
Britannic.
119
In direct response to the sinking, a new organization charged with
monitoring the presence of icebergs in the Atlantic and Arctic Oceans was
formed. Known as the International Ice Patrol, this body was established in
1914 as an arm of the United States Coast Guard. Though a part of the Coast
Guard, the Patrol is financed by thirteen nations interested in trans-Atlantic
navigation.
120
Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon testifying at the British Inquiry on either Friday, May 17 or Monday, May
20, 1912.
Harold Bride (middle) pausing for a smoke with his father (left) after arriving back in England.
* * * * *
Although the Inquiries addressed issues that needed attention regarding the
building and sailing of ocean-going vessels, it did not address one major
issue: the survivors who lost family members and, in many cases, almost
everything they owned. What would become of family members left at home,
who had lost the breadwinners of the family, and were now in serious
financial difficulties? This question was addressed by the Limitation of
Liability Hearings of 1912 to 1915.
When potential claimants in Britain heard that the Board of Trade Inquiry
had not found the White Star Line at fault, they moved quickly to file their
claims in the United States. Since the Titanic was sailing toward New York,
and as the White Star Line was an American-owned company, the case was
brought against them in the Southern District Court of New York State.
Claimants came forward seeking restitution for both loss of property and
loss of life; they filed claims or depositions, or in some cases both. The
claims filed totaled a staggering $16,804,112.00. Under American law, the
White Star Line’s liability was limited to the salvage value of the Titanic.
This was determined by the value of the lifeboats, with deductions for the
costs associated with board and travel for the survivors after they landed.
These costs amounted to only $97,772.02.
The court’s responsibility was to verify the claims, and determine if they
had any legal validity. Assuming they did, the court was to apportion payment
of each claim from any monies available. The proceedings suffered from a
number of delays due to issues relating to contacting the claimants. The
process of recording depositions in the case began in September of 1912, and
continued through June of 1915. However, the formal testimony in the U.S.
District Court before Judge Julius M. Meyer did not begin until June of
1915.121
At an early stage of the hearings, Judge Holt of the District Court stated
that British law applied in this case. This meant that the entire amount of
claims, $16,804,112.00, had to be divided among the claimants. In December
of 1915, a tentative settlement was agreed to by both the claimants and White
Star. By July of 1916, the case was settled, and $665,000 was divided pro
rata among the claimants. This meant that most survivors received far less
compensation than they had been seeking, and all future legal action was
barred.122
With all of these thorny legal and financial questions sorted out, one might
have expected the Titanic to slowly fade from public attention. Survivors
attempted to piece their lives back together and move on; many refused to
speak of their experiences, simply trying to bury their memories. Between
1914 and 1945, the horrors of the Great War, the unbridled optimism of the
‘Roaring Twenties,’ the bleak years of the Great Depression, and finally the
Second World War filled headlines and gripped the world’s attention. Yet
during the second half of the twentieth century and on into the twenty-first,
interest in the Titanic would experience an astounding resurgence.
Titanic off Portsmouth, April 10, 1912.

T
CHAPTER 8
THE ETERNAL ECHOES
he world has changed so significantly from Titanic’s era that it is difficult
to comprehend from a century’s remove what life in 1912 was like. 17-
year-old Jack Thayer described it this way:
These were ordinary days, and into them had crept only gradually the
telephone, the talking machine, the automobile. The airplane … was
only a few years old, and the radio as known today, was still in the
scientific laboratory … Upon rising in the morning, we looked
forward to a normal day of customary business progress. The
conservative morning paper seldom had headlines larger than half an
inch in height. Upon reaching the breakfast table, our perusal of the
morning paper was slow and deliberate. We did not nervously clutch
for it, and rapidly scan the glaring headlines, as we are inclined to do
today. Nothing was revealed in the morning, the trend of which was
not known the night before … These days were peaceful and ruled by
economic theory and practice built up over years of slow and hardly
perceptible change. There was peace, and the world had an even tenor
to its ways.
A dollar could be exchanged for four shillings, four marks, or five
francs. In exchange for a five-dollar gold piece or a five-dollar bill,
one could pocket a pound note or a gold sovereign …
In those days one could freely circulate around the world, in both a
physical and an economic sense, and definitely plan for the future,
unhampered by class, nationality, or government …
Today the individual has to be contented with rapidity of motion,
nervous emotion, and economic insecurity.
1
Certainly, this description – penned in 1940 – of a society filled with rushed,
nervous, people filled with economic uncertainty has continued to intensify in
the first years of the twenty-first century.
Jack Thayer attributed this tremendous change to the sinking of the Titanic,
and the sentiment is thoroughly understandable; it was an earth-shattering
period for the young man, as he lost his father in the sinking and suffered
tremendously – both physically and mentally – from its effects. In reality, the
sinking of the White Star liner was not the pivotal moment in human history
that it has frequently been made out to be; to some extent, its role in the shift
toward a more uncertain reality has been overblown. This change really had
far more to do with the effects of the ‘Great War’, now known as World War I.
That ghastly conflict stripped much of the world’s ‘even tenor’ away, and set
the stage for tremendously devastating events later on … the Great
Depression, the rise of the Nazi party in Germany, World War II, and many
other things.
Yet the loss of the Titanic did cause a complacent world to sit up and
reassess its position. Advancing technology was then considered a potential
cure-all for man’s ills; great confidence was placed in the technological
marvels of the day, such as the Titanic … if these great works could be felled
in a single night from a brush with an iceberg, what else could go wrong? It
was certainly a portent of things to come.
The disaster was indeed tremendous news until the outbreak of the Great
War. Many books were released on the subject in the months after the sinking.
Barely a month after the tragedy, survivor Dorothy Gibson even starred in a
silent film, Saved from the Titanic, which was largely based upon her
personal experiences that night. However, the sinking of the Titanic was
overshadowed to a large extent by the outbreak of the Great War, scarcely
twenty-eight months after her loss.
During the ‘Roaring Twenties’, people looked forward rather than behind;
during the Great Depression, most were too concerned about putting food on
their tables to worry about a long-lost ocean liner. Then came World War II, a
devastating six-year conflict that ended with the uncertainty of the Nuclear
Age and the Cold War.
It was not until the 1950s, then, that the public in general was ready to
look back upon the loss of the Titanic. Things seem to have really started in
1953, with the release of the 20th Century Fox motion picture Titanic. The
movie starred Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck as a fictional couple
whose marriage was literally at the breaking point and who, together with
their two children, found themselves directly in the middle of the tragedy.
While the film openly claimed a high level of accuracy based on the
transcripts of the two Inquiries into the sinking, it fell far short of that. A
majority of the events portrayed were either dramatically embellished or
simply inaccurate. However, the film’s stunning visual effects really captured
the imagination, and the film did recreate in some ways the feel of being
aboard the liner.
The historical record of the Titanic disaster took a tremendous leap
forward with the publication of the book A Night to Remember in 1955.
Written by Walter Lord, the book was simultaneously ground-breaking and
eminently readable; it was nearly impossible to put down. Lord had spent a
great deal of time reading the transcripts of the official inquiries into the
disaster and discussing the night’s events with still-living survivors. The
volume quickly became an international best-seller.
Joseph Boxhall (middle) and Herbert Pitman (right) at the premiere of A Night to Remember.
A publicity photo for Raise the Titanic. The photo shows the enormous scale model of the ship,
which has only a few inaccurate details. Were it not for the fact that, five years after the movie
was released, the ship was found broken in half, one could nearly believe that this was a photo of
the real ship, raised from the sea floor.
Two and a half years after the book’s release, a film of the same title hit
theaters. Starring British actor Kenneth More as Second Officer Lightoller,
and directed by Roy Ward Baker, the movie was a gripping portrayal of the
sinking of the Titanic. The film’s score was written by British composer
William Alwyn, and had a truly noteworthy primary theme.
While largely acclaimed as the most accurate film about the disaster, A
Night to Remember did contain some inaccuracies. The opening sequence,
where a bottle of champagne was broken over the liner’s prow and she was
formally christened was one example. The film was also clearly intended as a
vehicle for its star, Kenneth More, who portrayed Second Officer Lightoller;
throughout the sinking, Lightoller is shown personally loading nearly every
lifeboat. Many actions that were in reality taken by other officers were acted
out by More’s Lightoller; the portrayal of Thomas Andrews, played by British
actor Michael Goodliffe, was eminently believable … yet his accent was
British instead of Irish. The same could be said of First Officer Murdoch, a
Scotsman, and at least some others. Recent research has also highlighted a
number of other historical errors in the film. It could also be said that its
special effects were not quite on a par with the 1953 American film.
On the other hand, the 1958 film stood as a tremendous improvement in
the historical portrayal over its immediate predecessor. Joseph Boxhall,
Titanic’s Fourth Officer, served as a technical guide, and an obvious attempt
was made to correctly recreate many of the liner’s interior features. Much of
the dialogue was reconstructed from survivors’ original statements. A number
of survivors, including Edith Russell – known as Edith Rosenbaum in 1912 –
and Lawrence Beesley visited the set during filming. Edith Russell met the
actress portraying her 1912 self, and Charles Lightoller’s widow and son
carefully coached Kenneth More on how to accurately portray the liner’s
Second Officer. When the real Captain Smith’s daughter, Helen, visited the set
and met Laurence Naismith, who was portraying her father, she found the
striking physical resemblance between the two men almost too much to bear.
The film was also a masterpiece in that it did not use a fictional plot and
primary characters to draw audiences in; instead, it primarily relied upon
historical figures and showed them in such a way that audiences cared about
what happened to them.
In September of 1979, another film on the disaster was released to United
States audiences. Produced by EMI Films, and entitled S.O.S. Titanic, it was
a fascinating re-enactment based at least in part on Lawrence Beesley’s book,
The Loss of the S.S. Titanic, Its Stories and Its Lessons. While A Night to
Remember had focused almost entirely on the night of the disaster, this film
explored what life was like on board the Titanic before she sank. The film
starred an incredible cast: Ian Holm as Bruce Ismay, David Janssen as
Colonel John Jacob Astor, David Warner as Lawrence Beesley, a young
Helen Mirren as Stewardess Mary Sloan, Scottish actor Paul Young as First
Officer Murdoch, Cloris Leachman as Margaret Brown, and many others.
It is very difficult to conceive of better portrayals of many of these
historical characters – Murdoch with a Scottish accent; a feisty Margaret
Brown quipping with her friend Emma Bucknell; an authentically Irish group
of shipboard acquaintances in Third Class, with the men in the group all
riveted by the beauty of another girl traveling on the ship with them; the
friendship between Thomas Andrews and Mary Sloan; the trials of Colonel
Astor and his young bride as they sought to maintain a reputable position in
society; Irene Harris slipping and falling down the Grand Staircase; a feisty
Harold Lowe cussing out Bruce Ismay as Boat No. 5 is lowered … the film
really was quite stunning. It was also overlaid by a tremendous score by
Howard Blake, filled with period music such as ‘I’m Falling in Love with
Someone’, ‘The Irish Emigrant’,
2 and a number of well-known pieces – such
as ‘Bethena’ and ‘Elite Syncopations’ – by American Ragtime composer Scott
Joplin.
3
Directed by William Hale, the film, as it originally aired on ABC
Network in the United States, also sported a bold and very effective method
of telling the tragic story: through a flashback. The film’s opening sequences
showed the dramatic rescue of Titanic’s survivors by the liner Carpathia,
before flashing back to the voyage and finally returning to the bewildered
survivors as the Carpathia steamed for New York.
The film also had a number of historical inaccuracies. Nearly every
public room on the ship was inaccurately portrayed, as much of the movie
was filmed onboard the Queen Mary or at existing locations rather than on set
re-creations of the liner; the date given for that Sunday is inaccurate;
Lawrence Beesley was portrayed as hesitantly involved in a romantic interest
with a fictional character, Leigh Goodwin, played by Susan Saint James
4
;
mysterious jets of water shoot over passengers and crew struggling on the
Boat Deck toward the end of the sinking; the prominent use of Margaret
Brown’s nickname ‘Molly’ long before it became used, and a number of other
things.
Following the movie’s full-length release on American television, a
second and much shorter version was released theatrically for British and
other audiences. In the extreme editing, the flashback-style storytelling – so
ahead of its time in 1979 – was removed, and many other of the film’s finest
moments were lost entirely. While the shorter version received a commercial
DVD release, showing the film in its stunning visual quality, the full-length
version has become almost entirely lost.
On August 1, 1980, ITC released the film Raise the Titanic in the United
States.
5 Based on the best-selling book by adventure author Clive Cussler, the
film starred Richard Jordan as Dirk Pitt, Cussler’s serial hero. Co-stars
included Jason Robards as Pitt’s boss, Admiral James Sandecker; David
Selby as Dr Gene Seagram; Anne Archer as Seagram’s wife Dana; and a
cameo appearance by legendary actor Alec Guinness, who played a fictional
surviving Titanic crew member named John Bigalow. The film centered upon
a Cold War plot to make nuclear warfare obsolete, with the key ‘ingredient’ in
this plot being a rare mineral that sank in the hold of the Titanic.
The movie was tremendously expensive to make, and featured excellent
visual special effects. A spectacular score for the film was composed by John
Barry, the composer for numerous movies, including many of the James Bond
films between 1963 and 1987. Despite the big budget, special effects, and
dramatic score, the film was not the best-possible adaptation of the novel, and
was a tremendous box office disaster. Novelist Clive Cussler was dismayed
and vowed never to have another one of his novels adapted for the big
screen.
6 The stunning score for the film was almost entirely lost.
7 Due to its
popularity, however, it was subsequently reconstructed by conductor,
orchestrator and arranger Nic Raine, re-recorded and released on compact
disc.
8
In November of 1996, a miniseries named Titanic was aired on American
television. The film starred Catherine Zeta-Jones in one of her first major
roles,
9 Peter Gallagher, Eva Marie Saint and Tim Curry as fictional
characters. Some of the historical characters were portrayed by George C.
Scott as Captain Smith; Roger Rees as J. Bruce Ismay; Marilu Henner as
Margaret Brown and Kavan Smith as Fifth Officer Lowe, among others.
While much of the film centered upon the fictional story, it did have a few
historical highlights, such as an interesting portrayal of the Allison family and
Alice Cleaver. It was also ground-breaking in that it was the first cinematic
portrayal which showed the ship breaking in half as she sank – all films made
prior to the wreck’s discovery in 1985 held to the traditional depiction that
she had sunk intact.
10
Its low points included a disturbing rape scene and
numerous historical errors.
This miniseries was only a prelude to a much more lavish production by
director James Cameron, which was released in the United States on
December 19, 1997. It was backed by two major motion picture companies,
Twentieth Century Fox and Paramount Pictures, and it was the most expensive
film made up to that time, with a budget of some $200 million.
11 An enormous
new film studio was constructed in Rosarito, Mexico, in which a nearly fullsize replica of the liner’s exterior was built.
12 The forward portion of this set
was built so that it could be lowered into a large tank of water for scenes
where the ship takes its ‘slight but definite plunge’ forward.
Large sets were also constructed to represent the ship’s interior spaces,
and special attention was given to reproducing these as faithfully as possible
for the film. Enormous scale models of the ship were built for use in the
special effects sequences showing the ship at sea, and digital technology was
used to help put the scale-model on the open sea, populated with passengers
and crew, and to help ‘sink’ the liner. Director James Cameron even led an
expedition to the wreck of the ship in 1995, during which he shot footage for
use in the film; this marked the first time that footage of the actual liner’s
wreck was included in any motion picture film on the subject.
The movie starred Kate Winslet, Leonardo DiCaprio, Billy Zane, Frances
Fisher and David Warner
13 as a set of fictional characters involved in a
developing love story. Gloria Stuart portrayed the modern-day, aged version
of Kate Winslet’s character, and Bill Paxton played an underwater explorer in
search of a fictional diamond necklace that would supposedly have been
worth more than the Hope Diamond.
In an attempt to keep the historical details accurate, Cameron brought in
Titanic historians Don Lynch and Ken Marschall to consult – both before the
film started production and during the shoot. In fact, some of Marschall’s
paintings served as ‘storyboards’ for certain scenes of the finished film. Don
Lynch actually appeared on screen during the film, playing Frederick Spedden
as he watched his son spin a top on the aft A Deck.
14 Also making a cameo in
the film were Ed and Karen Kamuda, Ed being the President of the Titanic
Historical Society.
Historical figures shown in the film included Bernard Hill as an eminently
enjoyable Captain Smith; Victor Garber in perhaps one of the most endearing
portrayals of Thomas Andrews to date; Jonathan Hyde as J. Bruce Ismay,
Kathy Bates as Margaret Brown and many, many other famous passengers and
crew, such as Archibald Gracie,
15 John and Madeleine Astor, Benjamin
Guggenheim and Madame Aubart, Bandmaster Wallace Hartley, among others.
Most of the cast was selected specifically for a resemblance to the original
historical person they were portraying.
16
Much of the romantic story was wound around historic events which were
known to have occurred, and in some cases, the fictional characters could be
seen shaping the historical events. However, some of the filmmakers’
decisions on depictions of events during the voyage drew criticism: Ismay
pressuring Captain Smith to drive the ship faster against his will; passengers
being shot; and Murdoch both taking a bribe and committing suicide, among
other things.
17
Still, the film was in many ways a tremendous step forward in cinematic
depictions of the voyage and sinking. Accompanied by a wonderfully moving
score provided by James Horner, the movie literally brought the Titanic back
to life as never before. Although its opening weekend was a rather small
$28.6 million in domestic U.S. gross, the film became a juggernaut, retaining a
top position at the box office for 17 weeks in American theaters. It wound up
taking in over $600 million in the United States, the U.S. box office record for
the time, and an additional $114 million in the United Kingdom, steaming
toward a grand total of $1.84 billion in worldwide gross.
18
It was nominated
for fourteen Oscars and swept the year, taking eleven of these.
In the years since its initial release, the film has predictably become a
proverbial whipping-boy. Many men simply roll their eyes at the idea of
watching a period romance; Titanic ‘rivet counters’ can’t resist finding every
technical mistake made with the full-size sets and scale models; special
effects enthusiasts can’t resist showing how dated the computer graphics look
compared to newer films; yet in many ways the film marked an enormous step
forward in cinematic depictions of the disaster. While many facts turned up
after the film’s release that showed historical or technical errors in the movie,
it should be remembered that many of these revelations were only the result of
the wave of interest in the ship which swept the world after the film’s
release.
19
A 3-D version of the movie was released in theaters on April 4 (UK) and
April 6 (USA), 2012 – just days before the centennial of the liner’s maiden
voyage. As James Cameron said:
There’s a whole generation that’s never seen ‘Titanic’ as it was meant
to be seen, on the big screen. And this will be ‘Titanic’ as you’ve
never seen it before, digitally re-mastered at 4K and painstakingly
converted to 3D. With the emotional power intact and the images more
powerful than ever, this will be an epic experience for fans and
newcomers alike.
20
To mark the centennial anniversary of the sinking, not one but two new
productions were filmed. One of these, entitled Titanic: Blood and Steel, was
a 12-part miniseries focusing on the construction of the ship. An article
reported prior to its release that it would ‘focus on the design and
construction of the luxury liner, with the drama set against the class-bound
backdrop of Edwardian Belfast ..., where financial pressures may have led to
fatal compromises.’21
The miniseries proved to be more of a soap opera than anything else.
While the producers managed to get some historical details correct, the
majority of the ‘facts’ it contained were gross distortions of history. The
construction timeline of the Olympic and Titanic was badly mangled; Titanic
was consistently shown under construction in Olympic’s slip; blueprints
shown throughout the series were actually of the Lusitania; much of the plot
was based on the fallacy that financial pressures led to ‘fatal compromises’ in
the construction quality of the two ships. This is but a short list of the many
serious errors which historians were shocked to find; they were particularly
inexcusable since some of the actual facts presented demonstrated that the
producers had access to a large amount of good information when putting the
series together, yet decided to present a more ‘marketable’ production filled
with historical errors.
The second production was simply called Titanic, and it was a four-part
miniseries on the disaster by Julian Fellowes, the creator of the period drama
Downton Abbey. It was said that this miniseries would ‘focus on the lives of
the passengers and crew on the famous ship and will feature stories of
romance and mystery. Both fictional and historical characters will be included
in the drama.’22
Fellowes claimed that his production would right some of the historical
errors of James Cameron’s Titanic, but he actually made more than a few
mistakes of his own. The ship’s officers, including Captain Smith, were
placed in wrong locations before and during the collision. In fact, many of the
historical characters show up in places they shouldn’t be; as one example,
Mrs Astor is shown entering Boat No. 5, when she actually entered No. 4
over an hour later. Collapsible B was shown floating off the starboard side of
the Boat Deck rather than the port; not to mention Titanic was depicted as
apparently steaming backwards at one point, and was also shown as sinking
on an almost even keel. Fellowes obviously chose not to adhere too closely to
the commonly accepted facts of the sinking, regardless of his claims for
accuracy.
Over the years, many documentaries regarding the sinking of the Titanic
have also been produced. These have ranged the gamut from superb – some of
the best including A&E’s Titanic: Death of a Dream and Titanic: The Legend
Lives On, as well as James Cameron’s Ghosts of the Abyss – to the downright
laughable. Some have helped to bring the ship and its story back to life,
portraying facts and offering background information in a way that no
cinematic portrayal really could. However, at times, it has been clear that the
portrayal of so-called ‘facts’ is nothing of the sort.
The recent profusion of the latter type of documentary is a particularly
unwelcome development for historians interested in preserving history, rather
than having history distorted. While films portraying the disaster are clearly
entertainment no matter how well put together, or how closely they adhered to
the historical record, documentaries purport to represent facts in a historical
way. It is important that those interested in history for history’s sake compare
evidence before simply placing stock in what is presented in a televised
broadcast.
At the time of this writing, it remains to be seen whether any new
miniseries, films or documentaries will remain true to the historic record,
rather than relying on speculative and overly-dramatic or poorly researched
interpretations in an attempt to help sell them commercially. Although the
latter method is generally applied in the production of most recent works, this
choice is absolutely inexcusable in light of the abundance of readily-available
historic facts. Whatever the eventual content of future productions, public
fascination with the liner is sure to remain intense in the years to come.
On-screen depictions aside, the actual history of the Titanic also
continues to develop. Since the discovery of the liner’s wreck in the early
hours of September 1, 1985, by Dr Robert Ballard and a team of scientists
and researchers, a valuable record of the liner’s condition on the sea floor has
been made.
Ballard was not the first person to search for the remains of the great ship.
Indeed, there are indications that his may not actually have been the first team
to find the wreck’s location. It is known that during the Cold War, navies from
both sides were performing extensive and highly detailed sonar mapping
projects of the floor of the Atlantic. This was done as a means both to support
submarine operations, and to support anti-submarine detection and warfare.
Tantalizing hints and clues have emerged over the years that a large object or
objects were located during the course of these mapping efforts. It is also
reported that some involved with these expeditions believed that the objects
could only have been the wreck of the liner.
However, these have always been second- and third-hand reports;
government files on the projects were – and remain – classified, as much of
the technology used and some of the information gleaned was of a secret
nature, and in some cases may remain pertinent to today’s naval operations.
Additionally, some of the rumors on the subject have begun to border on a
‘conspiracy-theory’ level of absurdity. Inconveniently, many of those who
claim to have been involved with these ‘early discoveries’ of the wreck can
not easily produce documentation to back up their claims. Without tangible
evidence – either from Government records or from those actually involved –
the entire subject must remain something of a debatable point.
23 At the very
least, such widespread rumors go to show that it is not easy for large projects
or endeavors of any sort to remain a secret, particularly with the passage of
time. This is something that proponents of the Titanic/Olympic ‘switch’
conspiracy would do well to remember.
What can be stated with certainty was that Ballard’s 1985 team from
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute was the first to locate and photograph
the wreck and present the information to the public. Ballard had been
involved in secret work for the United States Government in locating and
exploring the remains of two of their lost nuclear submarines, the USS
Scorpion and the USS Thresher. However, Ballard – who had always
dreamed of finding the lost liner – realized that much of the equipment used in
those projects could easily be used to find the Titanic. He was granted
permission by the US Navy to use the equipment in that endeavor once he had
finished his other projects. His expedition was a joint venture with the French
oceanographic institute IFREMER; the team had been running out of both time
and money, having searched the area for what seemed an eternity before
stumbling onto the wreck.
The world once again went wild over the Titanic. Interest in the ship was
stirred to new, unprecedented levels. Further expeditions to the site in the
years since have resulted in a remarkable photographic record of the ship as it
is today, and many artifacts have been recovered and placed in exhibits
traveling the world, allowing people to connect firsthand with the disaster,
with the ship, and with the people who were aboard her during her last
voyage.
Sadly, the salvage efforts have resulted in a bitter dispute within the
Titanic community. Some feel that it is blatantly immoral to recover objects
from what they consider to be a grave site; some survivors who were still
alive after the wreck was found were of this opinion. Others feel that
recovering and preserving artifacts from the wreck site provides an incredible
advance in our understanding of those who were aboard the ship, and claim
that they are attempting to preserve the memory of those lost. While most
people cannot afford to visit the wreck site in person, it is much easier for
some to visit traveling expeditions which feature the recovered artifacts.
Admittedly, it is difficult to stand in front of these objects and not feel the
sudden, pressing reality of the Titanic and the tragedy of her loss. As
something that a majority of the world’s population have never personally laid
eyes on, it is easy to begin to see the Titanic as this sort of mythical creature
and the people who were aboard her as sort of half-real characters in her
story … in other words real, but never really so as one stares at twodimensional black-and-white, badly deteriorated photographs. But to
suddenly see in person items from the ship – a recovered davit, porthole,
personal effects, or even the tremendous ‘Big Piece’ of the ship’s hull – is an
experience that is hardly describable.
As the years have passed since 1985, the last survivors of the disaster –
and with them, the living memories linking us to the ship – have passed away.
Her legacy now rests in the hands of historians and researchers. At times, that
future seems doubtful; as the direct human connections to the tragedy have
been lost, it is easier for many to take license with the ship’s history in order
to sell new and demonstrably false ideas on an unsuspecting public. The
media eagerly spreads ‘new theories’ and ‘new facts’ because they know that
Titanic stories sell; however, they are loathe to reprint retractions even when
researchers can clearly demonstrate facts to the contrary. Phrases like ‘brittle
steel’, ‘bad rivets’, ‘cost-cutting’ and ‘conspiracy’ have become common
catch-phrases in the media, and are frequently mentioned in discussion among
those with a passing interest in the ship; such things do not represent the
historical record, however, and it is easy for the public to begin to lose
historical perspective.
Artifacts recovered from the ship are also, sadly, susceptible to theft. In
late 2011, for example, it was reported that a gold-plated necklace thought to
have belonged to Eleanor Widener was stolen from a Denmark artifact
exhibition. The necklace was insured for £14,000, but it was felt that it was
so easily identified that it would probably never turn up beyond the black
market.
24
More happily, public fascination with the lost ship has ensured many
expeditions to the wreck of the liner for the purpose of photographing and
exploring her. Through these, many facts about the ship and her construction
have been revealed; previously undocumented areas of the liner’s interior –
previously known only through photographs of her sister ship, Olympic – have
been photographed and at least some of this material has been shared with the
public.
In fact, some of the details unearthed on the Titanic have provided
historians with insight into lost features of the Olympic’s design … a rather
unusual reversal from previous discoveries, where information about the
Titanic and her design was typically extrapolated from the design of the
Olympic. These have also produced interesting information on some of the
previously unknown differences between the two liners … differences in the
pattern on the gates of her elevators … the first photographs of the Titanic’s
Turkish Baths – not seen since Steward Wheat looked in on them at about
12:45 in the morning of Monday, April 15, 1912 – proved the variations in the
rooms’ configuration from that found on the Olympic in 1911 … the presence
of special gates just inside the shell doors of the D Deck First Class Entrance
… an upright drinking glass on the washstand of cabin D-27 … a bowler hat
apparently belonging to Henry S. Harper in his cabin, D-33 … that the
windows of the First Class Dining Saloon (backlit by portholes during the
day, and electric lighting at night) were virtually identical to those
photographed on the Olympic … the list goes on and on.
There have been numerous expeditions to the wreck of the liner since her
1985 discovery. The first was by Dr Robert Ballard in 1986;25
then followed
expeditions by the salvage company RMS Titanic, Inc., in 1987, 1993, 1994,
1996, 1998, 2000, 2004 and 2010;26 an expedition to film the wreck in IMAX
in 1991;27 commercial dives by Deep Ocean Expeditions in 1998, 1999,
2000, and 2003; expeditions headed by James Cameron in 1995, 2001 and
2005;28 a dive for a new documentary by The History Channel in 2005;29 and
also Ballard’s return trip to the lost liner in 2004.30
Perhaps future expeditions will be able to turn up more information of
interest … a sub-bottom profiler sonar survey of the stern might confirm that
the wreck’s central propeller really had three blades, rather than Olympic’s
four … perhaps the piano on the port side of the Boat Deck First Class
Entrance could be reached and photographed? … perhaps further areas deep
within the wreck could be photographed … maybe sections of the mangled
stern’s interior could be further explored … perhaps a portion of a funnel’s
outer skin could be retrieved and studied for the purposes of confirming the
ship’s actual shade of ‘White Star buff.’ As much as is known about the great
liner, there will always be more to learn.
Unfortunately, the expeditions to the wreck have confirmed that the Titanic
is deteriorating. It has become abundantly clear that the sea is slowly
consuming the wreck; iron-eating bacteria are eating the ship’s steel, and there
are signs that portions of the wreck – particularly in the more lightlyconstructed superstructure – are even beginning to collapse. Many of the
windows on the forward half of the Promenade Deck – added only about a
month before the maiden voyage – are beginning to come loose and slide
away. Eventually, the wreck’s condition will deteriorate to the point that the
ship will hardly be identifiable.
Despite the bleakness of the wreck’s future, the liner’s legacy still lives
on today. After the enormous popularity of the 1997 film, the cruise industry
began to see a significant up-tick in traffic. While during the 1970s and 1980s,
it seemed as if the heyday of the great ships had seen its conclusion, cruising’s
popularity has actually led to a new round of competition between cruise
companies. The 70,000-gross registered ton mega-ships of the 1990s gave
way to vessels of 100,000 gross registered tons. Eventually, Cunard – which
had merged with the White Star Line in 1934 – set out to build the world’s
largest passenger ship. Intended as a glorious successor to the Queen
Elizabeth 2, the new ship was named Queen Mary 2. At 1,132 feet in length
and boasting a gross tonnage of 151,400, her interior volume was over three
and a quarter times that of the Titanic. Slated as a tough-built trans-Atlantic
liner that could double as a cruise ship during the winter months, many
industry analysts scoffed that she was too big and too expensive to turn a
profit.
This seems to be far from the truth. In fact, the Queen Mary 2 only stood
as the ‘world’s largest passenger ship’ for a brief time. The Royal Caribbean
Cruise Line, one of Cunard’s greatest rivals at the time of this writing, have
placed into service five 137,000-ton and three 154,000-ton cruise ships; these
were followed by two behemoths – named Oasis of the Seas and Allure of the
Seas – of some 225,000 gross tons each. Each of these is roughly four-andthree-quarters times larger than the Titanic in measured interior volume.
While some endlessly debate the cruise ships as worthy successors to the
passenger liners of the early twentieth century – these frequently quip that the
new ships are too big, too crowded, or that their sterns are too ugly and boxlike, and so on – the popularity of new tonnage has proven one thing: big ships
are still here to stay.
The loss of the Titanic, though tragic, also helped to save the lives of
many others during the last century. How many other great sea disasters were
prevented through the actions of the International Ice Patrol? How many
disasters which did take place had a smaller death toll because there were
lifeboats for everyone aboard? How many calls for help in the middle of the
night were heard because of a 24-hour radio watch? Yet, the sea has long
proved a worthy adversary to the best that man can build. The sinking of the
Costa Concordia on January 13, 2012, with the loss of 32 lives, is a powerful
reminder that no ship is unsinkable. The specter of the Titanic should never be
far from the minds of the officers on today’s cruise ships. Her loss is a
constant reminder of the need for vigilance. It is hoped that never again will a
great ocean liner find its way onto an iceberg in the middle of the night, taking
the lives of hundreds or thousands.
In the century since the Titanic plunged to an icy grave, the world has
changed in many ways; yet she was the epitome of what man was capable of
building during the Edwardian Era. Had she survived her maiden voyage and
World War I, she most likely would have found great success during the 1920s
and early 1930s, even as her sister Olympic did. Ironically, one is forced to
ask: if she had found a quiet, ignominious end being scrapped in Jarrow,
Northumberland, or Rosyth, Scotland, in the 1930s, would she be remembered
with such fondness? The answer is simple: probably not. Sinking as a new
ship in the spring of 1912, she now stands as this sort of moment ‘frozen in
time’. As a result, we of an uncertain twenty-first century can nostalgically
look back and glimpse what life was like a hundred years ago.
The Titanic may have passed from living memory. Yet her history, her
legacy, and the remembrance of all the people who set sail aboard her
infamous maiden voyage will never, ever be forgotten. The entire concept of
the proud and brilliantly-lit ocean liner, settling into a sea of glass in the
middle of the night on the North Atlantic, with the haunting refrains of
‘Alexander’s Ragtime Band’ echoing through the still, icy air fires the
imagination as very few other subjects in history ever have … or ever will.
Titanic’s final chapter is not yet written.
001. An early publicity illustration advertising the Olympic and Titanic for European agents.
002. This illustration shows Second Class passengers enjoying Olympic and Titanic’s spacious Boat
Deck.
003. An illustration of the port side Verandah Café of the two liners.
004. This photo shows the cups used in the Verandah Café, both in period illustration and in a
modern day photo.
005. An artist’s depiction of the D Deck Reception Room.
006. A splendid illustration of the forward First Class Grand Staircase and A Deck Entrance.
007. An illustration showing patrons enjoying the Swimming Bath.
008. The entrance to the White Swan Hotel in Alnwick, England, features fittings salvaged from
Titanic’s sister ship, Olympic, when that liner was scrapped.
009. Inside the hotel, these steps lead up into the dining room. The balustrades were from Olympic’s
aft Grand Staircase.
010. A detail view of the balustrade from the Olympic.
011. Climbing the stairs, one enters the hotel’s dining room and, incredibly, finds one’s self in
Olympic’s First Class Lounge – a near match to that found on Titanic.
012. This view is looking slightly to the left from the previous photograph. The windows on the
right once looked out upon the Promenade Deck.
013. This photo shows the fireplace and mirror which once stood in the forward wall of the First
Class Lounge.
014. A detail view of the intricate wood carvings in the paneling.
015. The craftsmanship and care with which Olympic and Titanic’s First Class Lounge were
produced is evidence in the breathtaking carvings from Olympic’s Lounge.
016. A detail view of the fireplace and mirror.
017. This photo was taken from the vicinity of the fireplace; visible at left is a semi-private alcove.
018. This daytime view shows light streaming into the dining room, ex-Lounge, through the
Olympic’s ornate windows.
019. Another view of the Olympic’s Lounge paneling. It is interesting to note that because the
Olympic and Titanic’s interior spaces were hand made, there were subtle differences in even the
pattern of wood carvings in their public rooms.
020. This partition separates one of the semi-private alcoves from a nearby section of the dining
room.
021. A rather ordinary-looking exterior view of a fire escape of the White Swan Hotel shows
something unique upon closer inspection: light streaming from within one of Olympic’s ornate
windows.
022. The hotel dining room is seen dressed for a special event. This room is one of the few places
where one can get a true idea of what being aboard the Titanic felt like.
023. A period illustration of the Olympic and Titanic’s à la carte Restaurant.
024. This illustration shows a ‘Bedroom B’-pattern First Class stateroom aboard the Olympic and
Titanic. These rooms were specially-designed by Harland & Wolff rather than by an outside design
firm.
Inset: 025. This is a piece of the remnant given to Frederick Dent Ray by a shipyard carpet-layer
before the maiden voyage. Its shade is not entirely dissimilar to that found in the illustration of the
‘Bedroom B’-pattern stateroom.
026. This is a color view of the Adams-style Sitting Room, similar in appearance to Titanic’s B-51.
The actual orientation of the room is more accurate to Olympic’s Sitting Room B-39, however.
027. A color illustration of Olympic and Titanic’s Second Class Dining Saloon.
028. The Second Class Library springs to life in this color illustration.
029. An illustration of a ‘Bibby-style’ Second Class stateroom; a narrow passageway led from this
inside stateroom down to a porthole that provided light and fresh air.
030. A color illustration of the Third Class Dining Saloon. Immigrants were treated to the luxury of
being waited upon hand and foot by obliging stewards.
031. A color illustration of the Third Class Smoking Room.
032. Nearly identical to the Third Class Smoking Room was the General Room; in this space,
however, men and women mingled freely.
033. A typical view of a four-berth Third Class cabin.
034. This illustration shows a two-berth Third Class cabin, intended for single ladies or couples.
035. A rare silk postcard of the Titanic.
036. ‘Hands Across the Sea’ postcards were very popular in Titanic’s day. This Swedish card is for
White Star vessels and headlines the Olympic and Titanic. As both vessels, as well as the Laurentic
and Megantic, are listed as being under construction, the card probably dates to early 1909.
037. This rare piece of correspondence was slated to be carried on the Titanic’s March 20, 1912
maiden voyage before that trip was canceled and rescheduled for April 10.
038. This piece of IMM advertising prominently features an illustration of the Olympic and Titanic.
039. A colorized view of the Titanic leaving Belfast on April 2, 1912.
040. A baggage claim ticket from aboard the Titanic, numbered 31438D, which included
instructions for the passenger on being prepared for Customs inspections upon arrival in New
York.
041. A beautiful 1911 advertisement for the London & South Western Railway, which was
connected both with the Boat Train service from London to Southampton as well as the new dock
and terminal facilities in that port.
042. Looking along Southampton’s Berth No. 44 toward what used to be the South Western Hotel.
043. A starboard profile and overhead view of the Titanic.
044. This rare plan of First Class accommodations aboard Titanic dates to March 29, 1912. Unlike
previous copies, it does show the late-addition cabins A-36 and A-37, which were occupied by
Thomas Andrews and Francis Browne, respectively.
045. This postcard of the Olympic and Titanic (showing both the front and back sides) was
postmarked from Queenstown in the afternoon of April 11, 1912. It was addressed to William
Stone of Cornwall, and signed ‘Jack’. It would seem that it was written aboard the Titanic by
Second Class passenger William John ‘Jack’ Matthews, who was also from Cornwall. Matthews
died in the sinking.
046. A Second Class dinner menu from the Olympic during the first full ‘at sea’ day of her maiden
voyage, Friday, June 16.
047. This Olympic First Class passenger list was nearly identical in design to those published for
Titanic’s maiden voyage. The color scheme of Titanic’s had more blue hues in it, but nearly
everything else – including the two illustrations – was identical.
048. Olympic stationary bearing the White Star Line pennant.
049. ‘Titanic at 1:50 a.m.’ by Robert Lloyd. As the Titanic lists 10° to port, water has reached the
forward Well Deck. Boat No. 2, with Fourth Officer Boxhall in charge, has just reached the water
and is beginning to row away. Boats Nos 4 and 10 are just starting to lower away. Collapsible D is
ready to be attached to the davits previously used by No. 2.
050. The header for a piece of Carpathia stationary.
051. An extremely rare silk postcard of the Carpathia.
052. A color illustration of Captain Smith rescuing a baby and bringing it to Collapsible B.
053. A color illustration of the rescue in progress.
054. This photograph was taken for the 1980 film Raise the Titanic. It shows the large scale model
of the ship sinking for sequences of the film which were eventually left on the cutting room floor.
055. A publicity photograph for Raise the Titanic captures the moment when the mighty liner was
raised from its watery grave.
056. Queen’s Road, Belfast, looking toward the former location of the Great Gantry, and Slips Nos
2 and 3. Compare with the photograph on page 21.
057. This revolving door, a near match to some of those found on Olympic and Titanic, stands in the
main entrance of Harland & Wolff’s offices in Belfast.
058. A view of the former offices of Lord Pirrie. On the left stands a shelf full of old plans and
photographs.
059. A fireplace and mirror in Lord Pirrie’s office.
060. The gravestone of William James Pirrie.
061. The Harland & Wolff Draughting Offices, where most of Olympic and Titanic’s plans were
drawn up, still stands.
062. A second view of the Harland & Wolff Draughting Offices.
063. A view along the side of the Thompson Graving Dock, where Olympic and Titanic underwent
portions of their fitting out. To grasp some concept of scale, note the size of the individuals
standing on the floor of the dock.
064. Looking down the length of the Thompson Graving Dock, with the pump house on the left.
065. Dunallon House, the home of the Andrews’ family beginning in the summer of 1908, shortly
after their marriage. The building is now the home of the Irish Football Association.
066. The main staircase inside Dunallon House, with a commemorative model of the Titanic on the
landing.
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Titanic’s Technical Specifications & Some Common
Misconceptions
PRIMARY PARTICULARS
Overall Length: 882 feet, 9 inches
Length Between Perpendiculars: 850 feet, 0 inches
Maximum Breadth: 92 feet, 6 inches
Draught forward: 34 feet, 6 inches
Draught aft: 34 feet, 7 inches
Displacement: 52,310 tons at 34 feet, 7 inches draught and ditto 143.8 tons per
inch draught
Gross Registered Tonnage: 46,328.54 tons
Height From Keel to Navigating
Bridge:
104 feet, 0 inches
Further Particulars & Common Technical Misconceptions
Regarding Titanic
It is worth noting that, contrary to numerous reports in second-hand sources,
all three of the Olympic-class ships bore an identical length between
perpendiculars and length overall. The numbering and spacing of all their
frames was identical as well.
Also of interest is the Titanic’s given displacement, which was a
measurement of the ship’s actual weight. Frequently, a displacement of some
66,000 tons is cited for the Titanic. However, to achieve 66,000 tons of
displacement, she would have needed to draw just over 42 feet 6 inches –
about eight feet greater than her registered draught and deeper than the boot-
topping paint applied to her hull. Under no circumstances would the ship ever
have been loaded that deeply.
In point of fact, the Titanic’s displacement could range from a light
displacement of 40,806 tons at a draught of 27 feet, 11 inches (this condition
would have meant the ship would have been completely devoid of all stores,
fuel and fresh water) up to the displacement cited above (52,310 tons at 34
feet 7 inches) and beyond up to nearly 54,755 tons at 36 feet of draught.
Notably, the Olympic and the Titanic displaced the same amount of water at
identical draughts.
1 Also of interest is that this measurement of weight was
given in Imperial Tons, which is comprised of some 2,240 pounds. In modern
tons of 2,000 pounds, the ship’s weight at a draught of 34 feet 7 inches
(approximately 117,174,400 pounds) would amount to just over 58,587 tons.
At her maximum registered draught of 36 feet, she would weigh 61,325
modern tons.
2
Another area of interest to researchers has to do with the gross registered
tonnage of the Titanic. Frequently, this measurement is cited as the liner’s
weight. In reality, however, this was a measurement of enclosed volume, not
weight. At this measurement, the Titanic was roughly half again as large in
enclosed space as Cunard’s Lusitania, which measured some 31,550.47 tons,
and their Mauretania, which measured 31,937.69 tons. Although the Olympic
and Titanic had started life identically, due to certain alterations in her
accommodations during fitting out, the Titanic’s final gross registered tonnage
was some 1,004 tons greater than her sister’s.
3
In this one area of measurement alone, then, did the Titanic have bragging
rights over her sister as the ‘world’s largest ship’, and at that the difference
was really only on paper. Interestingly, the Olympic underwent a number of
modifications during her career, and was later measured at a maximum of
46,439.48 gross registered tons – some 111 tons greater than Titanic. This
shows just how small the differences between the two ships really were, and
how flexible the measuring of internal volume was.
All of Titanic’s roughly fifty thousand tons of weight needed a tremendous
motive power in order to drive the ship through the sea. The powerplant of the
Titanic was of a hybrid type that would prove most economical. She and her
sister were each endowed with a pair of reciprocating engines; these four
monsters, two to each vessel, were the largest of their kind ever built, and
each produced some 15,000 nominal horsepower. Each of these engines was
geared to its own propeller. The marvel of the design, however, came next.
The waste steam from these reciprocating engines was then channeled into a
low-pressure turbine, which provided some 16,000 horsepower to drive a
third propeller, and which was placed along the liners’ centerline.
With no additional fuel consumption, the Olympic and Titanic were thus
given more than a 50 per cent increase in power. The total nominal
horsepower of some 46,000 was more than enough to allow them to
comfortably attain a 21-knot service speed. Although not quite as fast as the
Cunard liners, the Titanic – and her similarly endowed sister – would
certainly prove quite competitive. At the same time, Titanic also offered
potential passengers a much more comfortable sea voyage to make up for the
few extra hours they would spend in transit. There were many times during the
career of the Olympic when she managed to prove faster than her projected
21-knot service speed, and Bruce Ismay believed that due to some minor
improvements in the Titanic’s machinery, they were justified in expecting that
she would prove marginally faster than her sister.
4
What kind of minor improvements? Frustratingly, there are a lot of details
regarding changes from the Olympic to the Titanic that are still unknown to
modern researchers, simply because there was very little opportunity for
documentation on the changes to Titanic. Yet every now and then a new bit of
information surfaces. For years, it has been well documented that the Olympic
had two wing propellers, each of which had three blades, and sported a
diameter of 23 feet 6 inches, and that her four-bladed center propeller was
some 16 feet 6 inches in diameter. There are many photographs of the
Olympic prior to her maiden voyage that showed this configuration, and many
of these photographs have been used to illustrate the configuration thought to
be installed on Titanic.
However, recently a notebook retained by Harland & Wolff, which gives
the engineering particulars of the propelling machinery of the vessels they
built, came to light. It clearly indicates that the Titanic’s central propeller had
three blades, rather than four. This original document shows that the Titanic’s
center propeller was slated to be a three-bladed prop with a diameter of 17
feet 0 inches. The same document also shows that the pitch of the blades on
both the center prop and the wing props on the Titanic was different than
those originally fitted to the Olympic.
Such an alteration was by no means peculiar; indeed, it is known that in
the spring of 1913, the Olympic was given a three-bladed center propeller.
However, after the First World War, that propeller was replaced with a four-
bladed one. Minor changes to the pitch of Olympic’s propellers were not
unusual throughout her career, and demonstrate that propeller science was
constantly evolving; naval architects at the yard were tinkering and tweaking
in order to derive the best speed and efficiency from the Olympic’s
powerplant. Although the concept that the Titanic actually sank with a threebladed center propeller is rather earth-shattering, it should come as no
surprise that there were such alterations to the Titanic based on early service
experience with her sister. This single series of changes most likely explains
why Bruce Ismay testified that he was expecting a minor improvement in the
Titanic’s speed over that of the Olympic.
5
Beyond the incredible powerplant of the Titanic, the great liner was,
ironically, a very safe ship as well. She was designed with a total of sixteen
major watertight compartments, separated by fifteen transverse watertight
bulkheads. These bulkheads rose to the base of E Deck forward of Boiler
Room No. 1, and up to the base of D Deck aft of Boiler Room No. 1. None of
the bulkheads reached up to C Deck, which was the highest watertight deck
that ran the full length of the ship, but all of them rose well above the
waterline.
This paragraph from a White Star publicity brochure uses the word ‘unsinkable’.
For ease of movement between the compartments, the bulkheads were
pierced in various locations to interconnect them via hatchways Each
hatchway was provided with a watertight door. The doors in question were of
the vertically operating type, and had a friction clutch that normally kept them
in the raised, or open, position. In the event of an emergency, they could be
closed in any of four ways: (1) the Captain or Officer of the Watch could
close the important ones from a switch on the Bridge; (2) crewmen in the
compartment could also close any of the individual doors by simply tripping a
lever next to the door which operated the friction clutch; an alarm would be
sounded, normally for about twenty to thirty seconds, before the door was
fully closed; (3) the doors could also close themselves, in that a float
mechanism mounted beneath the floor would rise with any incoming seawater,
and cause the door to lower; and finally, (4) a hand gear was also fitted on the
bulkhead deck above, allowing an operator to raise or lower the doors
without being present in the actual compartment.
The Titanic was theoretically a ‘two compartment’ ship. This meant that
she was designed so that any two adjoining watertight compartments – even
the massive Turbine and Reciprocating Engine Rooms – could be flooded
without posing any real danger to the ship itself. Alternately, in the event of a
head-on collision, any three of her first five watertight compartments, or the
first four starting from the bow, could be flooded without really endangering
her floatability.
6 Any damage beyond this simply seemed implausible. Even
by modern standards the watertight subdivision of the Titanic was very safe.
Indeed, had the Lusitania struck an iceberg in the same manner as the Titanic,
opening damage along her side, it is quite likely that she would have
foundered much more quickly and dramatically than did the Titanic.
Much has been made over the years of the fact that the Olympic and
Titanic were called ‘unsinkable’. This term was famously used by The
Shipbuilder magazine; in the course of its special issue on the superliners, it
called them ‘practically unsinkable’. For a long time, it was believed that the
White Star Line itself had perpetuated the idea that they were unsinkable; later
generations of researchers pinned the phrase down to the press, however, and
some even claimed that White Star never used the term in any of its publicity.
However, the fact is that the White Star Line did use that exact word in a
late summer of 1910 special brochure on the new steamers. After a discussion
of much of the technical details of these great wonder ships, White Star
copywriters pointed out that ‘as far as it is possible to do so, these two
wonderful vessels are designed to be unsinkable’. While not stated as an
absolute, it was at the very least a comparable phrase to that used by The
Shipbuilder. The word ‘unsinkable’ also seems to have been picked up and
used by publicity and ticket agents, as well as some White Star personnel, in
conversations with passengers who had booked on Titanic’s maiden voyage.
In the course of such conversations the idea typically conveyed was simply
that the liner was unsinkable, without any qualifiers.
In point of fact, however, using such terminology at the time was not
considered extraordinary by any means. Indeed some four years earlier, The
Shipbuilder magazine had called the Lusitania and Mauretania, not
‘practically unsinkable’, but simply ‘unsinkable’. The qualifying word
‘practically’, or other words to that effect, was simply not to be found in that
discussion. Use of the word ‘unsinkable’ in advertising copy, trade journals
and the press merely reflected common public opinion that crack transAtlantic liners of the day were safe to the point that the ships were really
considered lifeboats in and of themselves. Fears of disaster, particularly on
the part of nervous passengers unaccustomed to braving the elements on the
rugged North Atlantic, could be laid to rest.
Even after the Titanic made her maiden voyage, use of this label – or
terms like it – did not cease. Once Olympic had undergone an extensive series
of improvements in her watertight subdivision, during the winter of 1912–
1913, confidence again ran high; the press said of the Olympic that her
builders believed that they had ‘realized the quest of an unsinkable ship’.
7
 The
Britannic, third ship of the class, was likewise said to have been so safe that
the danger of foundering had been reduced ‘to the lowest point, and absolute
safety [was] as nearly assured as human skill and foresight can make
possible’.
8 Other ships during the twentieth century were also deemed
unsinkable, or nearly so. So the use of this term, as it was applied to the
Titanic, was nothing out of the ordinary and, in fact, was quite common. The
term merely garnished attention later on since its application to the Titanic
was so incredibly ironic.
It has also been implied, over the years, that the quality of the rivets or the
hull plates used on the Titanic was inferior – either by neglect or in a
deliberate cost-saving measure. It has even been suggested that the structures
of the Olympic and Titanic were designed poorly, and that in essence they
were very weak ships … disasters just waiting to happen. Further, it has been
implied that the structural modifications made to the Olympic after the Titanic
disaster were intended to address these grievous weaknesses in a form of
cover-up.
However, the facts really belie these claims. It is true that modern
metallurgy tests have proven that the quality of some of Titanic’s rivets was
sporadic, primarily the soft iron rivets used in certain sections of the hull, as
opposed to the steel rivets used elsewhere in her form. However, the quality
of all the rivets was generally consistent with the standard shipbuilding
practices of the time. There is no evidence of cost-saving at the expense of
overall safety. Indeed, only modern analyses of the materials have shown the
occasional defects; at the time of Titanic’s construction, the British Board of
Trade inspector was able to say in a detailed report of the riveting: ‘The
workmanship is of the highest class throughout.’ What, if any, difference better
rivets might have made during the actual collision is endlessly debatable, but
recent scientific tests have shown her hull was very resistant to damage from
collisions like the one she was involved in that night. Beyond that, even with
the most modern welded hull, significant damage would have resulted.9
As far as the strength of the ship’s steel plates, these were thoroughly
tested to the satisfaction of the British Board of Trade long before they were
ever installed on the side of the ship.10 Recent investigations have reaffirmed
that the quality of their manufacture was not substandard, but rather was quite
in line with the steel-making capabilities of the day.
Finally, as regards the strength of the Titanic’s hull design, we know that
the Olympic’s strength, both prior to the Titanic disaster and after her postTitanic modifications, was unquestionable. During January of 1912, the ship
fought her way through a tremendous gale while west-bound for New York.
Captain Smith remembered it as the worst storm he had ever seen during his
career. In enormous seas, rails along the Forecastle were torn off, the No. 1
Hatch cover – which weighed five tons – was ripped from its mount and
thrown onto the Well Deck, and the steam winch and anchor windlass were
loosened. Despite this brutal punishment, there was no sign of weakness in the
Olympic’s structure, which was comparable to Titanic’s on her maiden
voyage. Other than some discomfort to a few seasick or nervous passengers,
and that it all made for a good story for the papers, the whole storm was
something of a non-event. By comparison, during Titanic’s initial crossing, the
weather was smooth and calm.
Only at the very end, when the Titanic’s flooded bow began to drop
beneath the sea and her stern section was raised above it, did her structure
succumb and begin to fail. Even this final failure, however, is noteworthy,
since at the time she was being subjected to forces far greater than her
designers had ever built her to withstand; these were far greater than any
forces she would ever have encountered during her career. And it is in this
final area that another detail of the ship’s structural strength has been called
into question: the design of Titanic’s expansion joints.
Two of these expansion joints were incorporated into the design of the
ship’s superstructure, which rested atop the main portion of her load-bearing
hull. They were designed to allow the superstructure – B Deck, A Deck, and
the Boat Deck – to flex as the hull beneath ‘worked’ at sea. The concept of
expansion joints was a relatively new technique adopted by ship designers
working in previously uncharted territory. There would be subsequent
improvements in handling these stresses on the ship’s structure as time went
on.
However, as far as the Titanic herself went, the expansion joints did not
affect the strength of the ship’s hull structure, specifically because they were
features of the superstructure only. Thus they were not load-bearing elements.
By the time the ship was under enough strain to begin its eventual breakup, the
hull itself was already beyond designed tolerances; she would have broken up
with or without the presence of the expansion joints in the superstructure, and
their presence had no bearing upon the actual sinking of the ship.
Indeed the Titanic was a strong enough ship that she survived for nearly
three hours after a collision which produced damage far beyond her
originally-designed tolerances. Right up until the final few minutes of the
sinking, she provided a relatively stable platform from which to launch the
lifeboats and to send calls for assistance – calls which were answered and
resulted, finally, in the rescue of her lifeboats’ precious human cargo.
Could the design of the Titanic have been better? Certainly in hindsight,
there was room for improvement, and such improvements were incorporated
into both of her sister vessels. However, there is no direct or indirect
evidence to suggest that her owners or builders tried to cut corners at the risk
of the vessel’s safety, or that the ship was of an inherently poor design. At the
time of her construction, she was a very strong ship and one that her builders,
her owners, and the people who stepped aboard her decks could rightly have
expected would deliver them in perfect safety to the opposite side of the
North Atlantic.
Appendix B: From Southampton to Cherbourg
There has always been some vagueness over exactly what times on April 10,
1912 certain events transpired. The ship was scheduled to depart at 12:00
•
noon, but there is some disparity of evidence on what time she actually cast
off. Once the lines had been let go, the escorting tugs moved the ship ahead
and turned her to port, until she was pointing down the River Test. Once the
Titanic engaged her engines, she quickly became entangled in the New York
incident, which by all reckoning delayed her departure. But by how long?
Some estimates put the delay at about an hour. Yet primary references on the
point are quite scarce. So is there any way to confirm that length of time, or to
find evidence that it may have been shorter or longer?
First, let’s start at Cherbourg, France, where the ship was due to make her
first port of call that evening. Frustratingly, some passengers recalled that the
Titanic was due in Cherbourg at 5:00 p.m., while others recalled that she was
due at 6:00 p.m. Whatever time they felt that the ship was due, all of the
passengers waiting in Cherbourg to board the liner remembered being told
that they faced a likely delay of an hour or more. A number of passengers on
the Nomadic recalled that they boarded the Titanic at 7:00 p.m.
1 Margaret
Brown recalled that it had taken the Nomadic about a half hour to reach the
ship once she had anchored. We also know from several sources, including
period newspaper accounts, that the ship dropped anchor inside the
Cherbourg breakwater at 6:30–6:35 p.m. Paris Mean Time, or 6:20–6:25 p.m.
Greenwich Mean Time.
2
It would have taken some minutes of low-speed
maneuvering for the ship to enter the harbor, but Margaret Brown said that the
process took only ‘a few minutes’ from her first appearance outside the
breakwater.
3
We also know the approximate distance between the Nab Light – where
the Southampton pilot would normally disembark and where the Titanic began
the open water cross-Channel passage – and the Cherbourg breakwater: 66
nautical miles. Additionally, we know precisely how fast the ship made the
cross-Channel trip: 68 revolutions on the reciprocating engines, indicating a
speed through the water of 20.2 knots.
4 Thus it would seem that the crossChannel passage in open water took about three hours and fifteen minutes.
5
Now let us return to the times for the departure from Southampton. There
is actually quite a bit of disagreement over what time the Titanic cast off from
the dock. She was scheduled to sail at noon sharp. However, those present on
the occasion disagreed as to what time the departure actually began:
‘She left Southampton at 12 o’clock.’6
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
‘Twelve.’7
‘It sailed at noon on the 10th instant.’8
‘Just after twelve.’9
‘I think a little after 12; a little after noon.’10
‘We left Southampton at about 12:05 p.m.’11
‘We left the dock at 12.15.’12
‘The ship started at about 12.15.’13
‘ … a quarter past twelve.’14
It would seem from this disparity in statements that the departure came
somewhere between 12:00 and 12:15 p.m. Indeed, if the actual time she cast
off nearly split the difference between those two extremes in recollections,
that would nicely explain the three categories of estimates: ‘Noon’, as in
precisely; ‘just after’, but apparently not quite a quarter past; and ‘about
12.15’ to ‘12:15’. However it is difficult to be dogmatic on the point in lieu
of firmer, and elusive, evidence. For the sake of this discussion, we will
place the departure at 12:15 p.m., although it should be recognized that it may
have occurred several minutes earlier than that.
Yet all of this discusses merely the time when Titanic cast off from the
dock. ‘Departing Southampton’ was not a simple, definable ‘moment’ in time.
There was the time that the liner cast off from her berth, to be sure, but there
was also the point at which she entered the main channel and began her course
down-river toward open water. Additionally, the journey to open water –
along a twisting route of approximately twenty-five or more land miles, or
about twenty-two nautical miles – would have taken quite some time. It had to
be negotiated carefully. This was particularly true of the ‘reverse-S’
maneuver to enter the Solent, the final and relatively straight cut of water that
would take the ship down toward Portsmouth, and eventually open water. All
of this would seem to complicate an estimate of the amount of time that it
should have taken for Titanic to reach open water, and thence connect with
our estimates both of the time she dropped anchor in Cherbourg, and the length
of time it would have taken for her to cross the Channel through open water.
Fortunately, we can find some assistance in estimating just how long the
voyage to the mouth of the Solent would have taken the Titanic on Wednesday,
April 10. Where does this aid come from? When her older sister Olympic – of
nearly identical size and maneuvering capabilities – departed Southampton on
September 20, 1911, she had just made it to the mouth of the Solent when she
collided with the Admiralty cruiser HMS Hawke. Although a terrible incident
in and of itself, the ensuing legal entanglements provided an opportunity for
the minutes from Olympic’s logbook on that day to be read into evidence. We
thus know precisely how long it took from when the ship cast off from the
dock until she collided with the Hawke. Since weather conditions were
relatively similar on September 20, 1911 and April 10, 1912 – without
unusually high winds or reduced visibility – and since the two departures
were made under the same Pilot and same Captain, the comparability
increases to a close approximation. Knowing how long it took Olympic to
make it to the mouth of the Solent should tell us how long it should have taken
Titanic to reach the same point, had the New York incident not interfered.
On the morning of September 20, 1911, the Olympic cast off at 11:10 a.m.
Proceeding down the River Test, she reached Black Jack Buoy at 12:30 p.m.,
and began the ‘reverse-S’ maneuver to enter the Solent at 12:34 p.m. That
maneuver encompassed some ten minutes’ time, ending at 12:44 p.m. At that
point, the Olympic had entered the main channel, and her engines had been
returned to ‘Full Ahead’. This order on the telegraphs had also engaged her
turbine engine. She was accelerating to a speed of 20 knots for the trip down
the Solent. She collided with the Hawke at 12:46 p.m., before she had reached
her intended speed. This means that, in total, it took the Olympic 1 hour and
34 minutes to enter the Solent and set her engines to ‘Full Ahead’. The Solent
was largely a straight cut of water with a run of about 14–15 nautical miles;
covered at an average speed of 20 knots, passage through the Solent would
have encompassed about three-quarters of an hour’s steaming time. Had the
Olympic not collided with the Hawke, she likely would have reached the Nab
about 2 hours and 20 minutes after casting off from the dock, or at about 1:35
p.m.
By comparison, the Titanic cast off from the same dock at about 12:15
p.m. Without the interference of the New York affair, she most likely would
have reached the Nab at about 2:35 p.m. that afternoon. Ordinarily, at that
point the ship would have needed to stop her engines, and the Pilot would
have disembarked to the waiting pilot boat by Jacob’s ladder. Only once the
smaller boat was clear would the ship have re-engaged her engines. This step
was well-rehearsed and in good weather would have taken but a short time if
everything went smoothly. In general terms, one period reference book
described a departure from New York Harbor – fairly representative of the
procedure in any major port – in this manner:
The trip down the bay is, of course, always interesting, even to New
Yorkers. Ellis Island, the Statue of Liberty, Staten Island, and Coney
Island, are all soon left behind. In the meantime the sailors have been
getting out the sea ladder for the pilot’s descent; at last the steamer is
abaft the pilot boat … looking not unlike a private yacht. A rowboat is
put off from the steam pilot boat and the sailors throw the rowers the
rope and the boat is trailed alongside and brought underneath the sea
ladder. There is a sharp clank-clank in the engine-room of the signals
and the machinery stops, while the pilot with his little bag of mail
shakes hands with the captain and disappears over the rail. He reaches
the rowboat, the rope is cast off, and as soon as it is a safe distance
from the ship, clank-clank goes the engine signal from the bridge, and
the machinery is not usually stopped again until a foreign port is
reached.15
From this general description we can surmise that with an experienced pilot
like George Bowyer, a familiar port, and good weather, the entire process of
dropping the pilot could have taken as little as 10–15 minutes. The trip down
to the Cherbourg breakwater would have encompassed about 3 hours and 15
minutes time from the Nab Light. Thus, without the New York incident, and
including a pilot drop-off at the Nab, the timing of the departure would appear
to be thus:
12:15 – Casts off from White Star Dock.
1:50 – Emerges from ‘reverse-S’ curve, enters the Solent with all
engines engaged for 20 knots.
2:35 – Arrives at the Nab, stops to disembark Pilot Bowyer.
2:45–2:50 – Re-engages engines (68 revolutions/20.2 knots) bound
for Cherbourg.
6:00–6:05 – Arrives at entrance to Cherbourg Harbor.
This gives us a good approximation of the time that the Titanic would have
reached the Cherbourg breakwater, had the New York affair not have
intervened: about 6:00–6:05 p.m. Greenwich Mean Time. If it took the liner ‘a
few minutes’ to enter Cherbourg Harbor and drop anchor, then she most likely
would have finished at about 6:10–6:15 p.m.
16 Keeping in mind that the ship
apparently cast off from the White Star Dock about fifteen minutes late, this
careful reconstruction of the timeline would indicate that passengers who
recalled that the ship was due to arrive in Cherbourg at 6:00 p.m. were
accurate, as opposed to those who felt the ship would arrive at 5:00 p.m.
This arrival estimate is further backed up by the timing of Olympic’s
maiden voyage departure – also made in good, clear weather. Having cast off
from the dock, it took quite some time for the accompanying tugs to maneuver
the ship out into the main channel. Once this had been accomplished, the tugs
departed at 12:45 p.m., and the ship was solidly under way by 1:00 p.m. She
arrived at Cherbourg, without any further delays, at 7:00 p.m., some six-anda-quarter hours after the tugs cast off from her side in Southampton. It was
reported that the liner’s speed across the Channel was not pushed, despite the
delay in departure.
17 Without the delay in entering the main channel, which
was reported to have taken about an hour, it seems quite likely Olympic
would have made Cherbourg around 6:00 p.m.
An anticipated arrival time for the Titanic of around 6:00 p.m. in
Cherbourg seems even more likely since French clocks were not set to
Greenwich Mean Time. Although France had accepted Greenwich, England as
‘Longitude 0’ in 1911, it still had not accepted the standard world time zones
by the following spring. A period guidebook said:
A number of European countries have not accepted Standard Time
based on the meridian of Greenwich, but base their time on a meridian
of their own. France, for instance, uses the local mean time of Paris,
which is 9 minutes and 21 seconds faster than Greenwich Time. This
is the time that appears outside of railroad stations, but the clocks
inside by which the trains are operated are five minutes slower.
18
Based upon Paris Mean Time, France continued to define legal time as GMT
plus nine minutes and 21 seconds until August of 1978. So on April 10, 1912,
French clocks were running 9 minutes and 21 seconds ahead of British clocks.
According to Paris Mean Time, then, the Titanic was originally to drop
anchor at about 6:10 p.m. Her late departure from the dock would have
delayed that time to anchoring to as late as 6:25–6:30 p.m. Paris Mean Time.
So although the Titanic’s clocks were running according to Greenwich Mean
Time all that afternoon and evening, we must allow for the possibility of a
ten-minute discrepancy from ship’s time for those who awaited the ship in
Cherbourg, depending on what time zone the timepieces they used were set to.
What is even more interesting is that our primary sources for the anchoring
time of 6:30–6:35 p.m. come from French papers, and it is doubtful that they
would have recorded that time in Greenwich Mean Time just because the
ship’s clocks were set to that time. So for that time estimate, subtract about ten
minutes, meaning that the ship apparently dropped anchor in Cherbourg at
6:20–6:25 p.m. GMT. This is roughly 10–15 minutes after she should have
dropped anchor, had there been no New York incident. So up to this point, it
would appear that the New York incident only delayed the Titanic’s arrival in
Cherbourg by 10–15 minutes. However, several things are not yet factored in.
First, it is interesting to note that there is evidence that the New York
incident was not the only delay experienced by Titanic in clearing
Southampton. One of the First Class passengers bound for Queenstown, 31-
year-old theological student Francis M. Browne, watched the departure with
great interest. He later wrote that the delay whereby the New York was
brought out ahead of the Titanic’s bows was ‘but for a moment, and then we
slowly forged ahead down Southampton Water with the Channel open and free
before us’. Yet he also recalled that there was, very shortly afterward, a
second delay: ‘A tug came to take ashore the workmen and navvies who had
been arranging the luggage in the storerooms, and we were fully off.’19
So it would appear that there were really three separate delays in leaving
port: the initial delay in casting off, of perhaps as much as 15 minutes, the
delay to allow the New York to clear the Titanic’s bows, and the delay to
allow a few stragglers to disembark by tug. It would be ludicrous to suggest
that the latter two delays would have postponed the ship’s arrival in
Cherbourg by only 10–15 minutes. So how could the Titanic have made up for
lost time?
It seems that the key may lie with Trinity House Pilot George Bowyer.
There is some evidence which suggests that Bowyer remained aboard the
Titanic during the entire voyage down to Cherbourg.
20 Why would Bowyer
have stayed with the ship? From time to time, Harbor Pilots were forced to
stay with the vessels they took out of port, particularly if bad weather made a
transfer to the pilot boat extraordinarily dangerous. Yet on that Wednesday
afternoon, the weather was ideal. It would seem that there is only one logical
explanation: omitting a stop at the Nab Light to disembark Bowyer would
have saved about 10–15 minutes and helped to get the liner back on
schedule.
21
This means that the New York incident as well as the pause to disembark a
few crewmen who had stayed aboard too long to a nearby tug could now total
a more believable 20–30 minutes. If the ship cast off from her dock before
12:15, then any of those minutes would have to be added back in to that delay.
This means that the delays from the two pauses together – not just the New
York incident, but also the stop to offload the navvies to the tug – might have
totaled a maximum of 35–45 minutes, depending on the exact time that the ship
had cast off.
Although all of these estimates are just that – carefully reconstructed
estimates – it would seem that the New York incident did not delay the ship’s
arrival in Cherbourg by a full hour’s time. So why were so many told that the
incident with the New York had taken a full hour? One must remember that the
ship had left her dock late, perhaps up to fifteen minutes late. Thus, it is easy
to see why passengers waiting in Cherbourg were told that the ship had been
delayed by an hour. When a 20–30-minute delay from the two separate pauses
was combined with being as much as 15 minutes late in casting off from the
dock, it all added up to a delay of about three quarters of an hour, some of
which seems to have been made up by omitting the stop to disembark Pilot
Bowyer at the Nab. In Cherbourg, White Star and other local officials were
probably completely uninformed that some of that delay may have been
caused by a late departure from the dock; all they – and passengers there
waiting to board – knew was that the ship arrived about an hour late. With the
amount of time the ship was delayed from casting off and the second pause
being somewhat forgotten through the pages of history, the impression which
has been given was that the delay caused by the New York incident took more
time than it really did.
Still, one might ask: is there any eyewitness evidence that could back up a
shorter delay by the New York incident? Major Peuchen later recalled: ‘I
should think we were delayed probably three-quarters of an hour by this
trouble.’22 Third Officer Pitman recalled that the delay was not serious, but
rather set the ship back by ‘about half an hour’.
23 So after careful
consideration, it seems that the New York incident and the subsequent stop to
offload a few stragglers to the nearby tug delayed the Titanic’s departure by at
most three-quarters of an hour.
Appendix C: The Question of Binoculars
In the years since the Titanic sank, much has been made of the fact that the
lookouts were not supplied with binoculars, or ‘glasses’, as they were
frequently termed at the time. It has been intimated that because Lookouts
Frederick Fleet and Reginald Lee were not given a set on that cold, dark
night, they were not able to spot the iceberg in time, with disastrous results.
But where did this concept originally come from, and does it stand intense
scrutiny?
In part, this story may have originally sprung from Frederick Fleet
himself. At the American Inquiry, Senator Smith asked Fleet whether he could
have spotted the iceberg at ‘a greater distance’ if he had been provided
binoculars. Fleet replied: ‘We could have seen it a bit sooner.’ When pressed,
‘How much sooner?’ Fleet responded: ‘Well, enough to get out of the way.’1
At the British Inquiry, Fleet made a similar implication, stating that if he had a
pair of binoculars handy, then he ‘certainly’ could have seen the iceberg
sooner, and in ‘time for the ship to get out of the way.’2
In point of fact, despite all of the rush and haste to get the Titanic ready
for her departure from Belfast, a supply of ‘Theatre, Marine and field’
glasses, or binoculars, were supplied for each of the ship’s officers, as well
as a pair for the Captain and another pair – typically called pilot glasses –
which were to be left on the Bridge.
3 When the lookouts in the Crow’s Nest
found that they did not have any glasses upon leaving Belfast, Second Officer
Blair had lent them a pair. He gave Lookout George A. Hogg – who would
stay with the ship through the maiden voyage – his own set of glasses, which
were marked, ‘Second Officer, S.S. “Titanic”.’4 However, Hogg remembered
that when the ship arrived in Southampton, Blair came up to the Nest and told
him ‘to lock them up in his cabin and return him the keys.’5 Blair gave this
order even though there was a storage box in the Crow’s Nest to keep them in,
located in the port-aft corner.
6 Hogg did as directed, proceeded to the Second
Officer’s cabin, and locked the glasses up. Before he could return Blair’s
keys, he was tapped for some sort of work on the Forecastle, and he passed
the keys on to Seaman William Weller, who had also come down from
Belfast, so that he could give them to Blair.
7
However odd it might initially sound, there really was nothing unusual
about this procedure. Seaman Jones said that in his experience, the binoculars
were not left in the Crow’s Nest while the ship was in port, as they could get
stolen. As a result, lookouts would ‘go to the office and get them when we left
port’ and bring them up to the Nest. The glasses would remain there for the
trip but then, ‘upon arriving at port again, [the lookouts would] take them into
the office.’8 Fred Fleet also remembered that the glasses he used aboard the
Oceanic were not kept in the Crow’s Nest while the ship was in port; at the
end of each voyage, they were taken back to the Second Officer.
9
Thus, it does not seem that there was anything particularly unusual about
the lookouts needing to go find a pair of binoculars when the time came to
leave port. Accordingly, at some point on the day of the liner’s departure from
Southampton, Lookout George Symons had gone to Second Officer
Lightoller
10
 in the hopes of obtaining a set of glasses.
‘What is it, Symons?’ Lightoller asked.
‘We have no look-out glasses in the crow’s nest,’ Symons replied.
Lightoller responded with an: ‘All right,’ and proceeded to Chief Officer
Wilde’s room. ‘There are no look-out glasses for the crow’s nest,’ he told the
Chief Officer. Wilde responded that he was aware of the fact, and that he ‘had
the matter in hand,’ but that there were no glasses for the lookouts. Lightoller
returned to the waiting lookout man, and told him: ‘Symons, there are no
glasses for you.’11
With that, Symons left and informed the other lookouts of the fact.
12 This
may have been the point when Lookout Lee remembered a discussion among
himself, Symons, Fleet, Hogg, and Evans on the subject. However, that did not
mean that the lookouts gave up in asking for them. Lookout George Hogg
remembered that he had also asked Lightoller for glasses after departing
Queenstown. ‘Where is our look-out glasses, sir?’ Although he didn’t exactly
catch Lightoller’s response, he recalled that it was something like, ‘Get them
later.’ Whatever the precise wording of Lightoller’s answer, Hogg had no
more success in procuring a set than Symons had.13 The lookouts were simply
going to have to make do without them during the trip.14
Having a set of glasses available to lookouts was not entirely uncommon
on ships of the period. Archie Jewell recalled having a pair on seven or eight
voyages on the Oceanic prior to the Titanic’s maiden voyage.
15 George
Symons had been with the Oceanic as lookout for three years, and similarly
remembered having binoculars on that liner.
16 Fred Fleet also recalled having
a single pair of glasses for the lookouts’ use on every trip he made aboard the
Oceanic. However, he also remembered that they were ‘very poor’, and that
he could hardly see much of anything with them.
17 Seaman John Poingdestre,
who also had transferred from the Oceanic, said that he knew that binoculars
had been supplied to lookouts on other liners, and had used them personally.
18
Seaman Thomas Jones had served as a lookout on the Majestic for twelve
months, and subsequently on the Oceanic. He went so far as to say that he had
never known a Crow’s Nest to be without glasses.
19
However, such a provision was far from universal. Lookout Reginald Lee
had just transferred from the Olympic, but he had been at sea for fifteen or
more years. Generally speaking, he was not aware of glasses being supplied
to the lookouts. On those occasions when he did have them for use, he was
unsure as to whether they were supplied by the company or privately
owned.20 Quartermaster Walter Wynn also said that while he knew that
glasses had been provided for the lookouts on the Oceanic, he did not think
that it was the typical practice on other ships unless the weather was foggy.
21
Lookout George Hogg said that he ‘always had night glasses in the White Star
boats’,
22 but his experience as a lookout with the White Star Line was limited
to a single round-trip voyage on the Adriatic. When he had served as a
lookout with ships of other steamship companies, he had never been supplied
with binoculars.
23
The lack of consistency in the provision of glasses for lookouts may have
stemmed from differing opinions on their use. Not everyone felt that
binoculars were necessary or, indeed, even useful for lookouts in the Crow’s
Nest to have. Some thought that they could actually be detrimental to the
lookouts’ job, as the glasses might allow them to fix their attention in one
small area of the horizon for too long. Indeed, using them all the time would
have cut a lookout’s field of vision dramatically; if he was not focused in the
right area at the right time, he could easily miss something important. Even for
those who felt binoculars were useful to the lookouts, it was thought that they
were best used only after spotting an object, as an aid in identifying the
object seen, and obtaining further useful information about it.
For example, Archie Jewell said that glasses for the lookouts were ‘very
useful’
24 and that when they were available, he used them ‘very often’.
25
Reginald Lee agreed with Jewell, saying that having and using glasses was
‘better than the ordinary eyesight’.
26 However, he did admit: ‘If you have got
good eyesight it is not necessary to have them perhaps.’27 George Symons
said that he found glasses ‘very useful’.
28 Yet by the same token, he said that a
lookout would use his ‘own eyes as regards picking up anything’, and the
glasses would only be used afterward to ‘make certain of that object’ and
examine it for further information.
29
Frederick Fleet also said that while glasses were handy, he would only
use them if the lookouts ‘fancied we saw anything on the horizon’, and that he
would depend upon his naked eye first to sight objects, and then use the
glasses.
30
Interestingly, he contradicted himself later on when he said that he
would use glasses ‘constantly’ when on a ‘sharp lookout’ such as he was on
the night of April 14.31 Shortly thereafter he reversed himself again, agreeing
that he would use his naked eyes alone to detect an object, and then use the
glasses to make sure of it.
32
Lookout George Hogg said that he trusted his eyesight first in detecting
objects; only then would he use binoculars. Personally speaking, he felt that
the glasses were not really meant to detect objects, but rather to study them
once sighted.33 Seaman Thomas Jones, who had served as a lookout on
previous voyages, felt that glasses would not be ‘much of a help to pick
anything up; but to make it out afterwards, they were’. He also felt that at night
they were ‘not of any use at all’, and that he would prefer his own eyesight
rather than glasses.
34
Captain Stanley Lord of the Californian said that he ‘would never think of
giving a man in the lookout a pair of glasses’.
35 He said that he simply did
‘not see any necessity for it’, as once the lookout reported the presence of an
object or light, ‘it has nothing to do with him what it is afterwards’.
36
Although the Oceanic was widely reported to carry binoculars for her
lookouts, her Captain, Bertram Fox Hayes, later said that binoculars ‘spoil the
look-out’, and that it wasn’t the lookouts’ business to find out what the object
he sighted was, which way it was going and so forth. That, he said, was the
officer’s business.
37 White Star’s Marine Superintendent, Benjamin Steele,
said that he didn’t even believe in using them.
38 Captain Richard Jones of the
Dominion liner Canada – an IMM ship – said that he did not think it desirable
to have lookouts use glasses, because ‘in the first place, it is very difficult to
focus the glasses, and if the glasses are not properly focused the man might as
well have a blank tube to look through’.
39 Even famed explorer Ernest
Shackleton said that he did not believe in ‘any look-out man having glasses at
all’.
40 Captain Moore of the Canadian Pacific liner Mount Temple said that he
‘never’ had glasses used by his lookouts, but that every one of his officers had
his own glasses, and they were used from the Bridge.
41
Second Officer Charles Lightoller was asked about whether glasses
would have been used only after detecting an object. He replied: ‘Each man
uses them as he wishes. Different men have different ideas of the glasses, and
of using them. Some keep them glued to their eyes altogether. I consider that
very detrimental.’42 He personally liked to have glasses in hand when he was
on watch on the Bridge, but would only put them up to his eyes occasionally.
43
In his personal experience, he said that he had always seen an iceberg first
with his eyes, and then examined it through glasses.
44 Lightoller also agreed
with Captain Lord in that the officers didn’t want lookouts to identify what an
object was, but instead merely to report its location to the Bridge.
45 With
regard to spotting a derelict, iceberg, or other item that was close to the ship,
the lookout man ‘must not hesitate a moment, and on the first suspicion, before
he has time to put his hand to the glasses or anything, one, two, or three bells
must be immediately struck, and then he can go ahead with his glasses and do
what he likes, but he must report first on suspicion’. Only for an item much
further out did Lightoller feel that a lookout should investigate the object with
his glasses before reporting it.
46
Bruce Ismay was asked about White Star’s policy of supplying glasses to
lookouts. He responded: ‘I believe up to the year 1895 we used to supply
look-out glasses to the look-out men, and since that date I think it has been left
to the discretion of the commander whether he gives them look-out glasses or
not.’ He also acknowledged that there were then some considerable
differences of view prevalent about having lookouts use binoculars. However,
if a certain ship’s Captain wanted glasses, White Star would make provision
of them.
47 Harold Sanderson said that he thought Ismay believed in
binoculars’ usefulness more than he personally did.48
It seems that although a good supply of glasses was brought aboard the
Titanic for the use of her senior officers, no provision was made for the
lookouts to receive glasses. Whether this was an oversight – an item lost or
misplaced in the haste of those last days in Southampton before she departed
on her maiden voyage – or whether they were simply deemed unnecessary is
unclear. Even Lightoller, who was so connected with the lookouts’ request for
binoculars, claimed that he could not say whether any glasses had been
specifically supplied for the use of the lookouts on that voyage, and if not,
why.
49
The binoculars which were initially made available to the lookouts on the
trip down from Belfast were the same set assigned to then-Second Officer
Blair, and were subsequently returned to his cabin. When Blair left the ship,
and Lightoller became Second Officer in his place, the glasses were probably
utilized by Lightoller through the subsequent voyage. That means that the
glasses Lightoller recalled using on his watch during the night of April 14
were most likely – although not certainly – the same pair which had been used
by the lookouts on the trip down from Belfast. The decision by Blair to share
his set of glasses with the lookouts seems to have been a personal one; it
seems not to have occurred to Lightoller to repeat the offering despite the
lookouts’ requests.
As far as the lookouts were concerned, it is clear that they seemed to like
having binoculars handy; in spite of the varying opinions on their use, after the
disaster lookouts began to raise a ‘popular cry’ to be supplied with them. As
a result, Harold Sanderson said that the White Star Line had decided to
provide binoculars for lookouts on their ships.
50 However, testimony at the
inquiries was relatively unanimous in agreeing that having them was
unnecessary for use in initially spotting objects such as icebergs, and the
British Inquiry saw no need to recommend that they be supplied to all
lookouts. In fact, modern tests have been made with binoculars on dark nights
on open water; the tests demonstrated that using such glasses to detect objects
is highly ineffective, and borderline pointless.
51
Of far greater consequence was a factor that absolutely no one had control
over: the elements. In the cold air that night, as the ship moved forward
through the atmosphere, this produced an icy ‘wind’ that cut into the faces of
the lookouts in the Crow’s Nest. Their unprotected eyes stinging and tearing,
the lookouts would have squinted into the night, braced for the duration of
their watch. Although these elements were not unknown to lookouts on the
Atlantic in cold temperatures, it is possible that they reduced the ability of
Fleet and Lee to identify the iceberg in time to avoid a collision.
Blaming the disaster, even in small part, on ‘mysteriously missing’
binoculars certainly makes for a good – not-to-mention oft-repeated – story.
However, after a careful consideration of the evidence, we are left to
conclude that their absence had little or no effect on the outcome of the
collision.
Appendix D: What Time Is It?
Over the years, considerable controversy has existed over what time Titanic’s
clocks were keeping when she struck the iceberg at 11:40 p.m., April 14,
1912. This time, termed ‘Apparent Time Ship’ (ATS), was changed daily as
ships moved east or west, in order to proportionately account for the
difference in time between European and American ports. On east-bound
trips, the days were shortened and clocks were set ahead. On west-bound
trips, the days were lengthened, and the clocks were set back.
Each of the three formal investigations into the sinking reached a separate
conclusion on the Titanic’s ATS after the accident, and each of these
conclusions differed from the other two. The American Senate Inquiry
concluded she was 1 hour and 33 minutes ahead of New York Time; the
British Inquiry concluded she was 1 hour and 50 minutes ahead of New York
Time; and the Limitation of Liability Hearings in 1913 concluded that she was
1 hour and 39 minutes ahead of New York Time. Obviously, all of these
conclusions couldn’t be right. So, the simplest thing to do is to compare the
evidence and follow it through to its natural conclusion. For the sake of
simplicity, the present authors will only refer to west-bound crossings; the
same principles would apply to east-bound crossings.
On the Titanic, during a west-bound crossing, the ship’s clocks were set
back each night so that at local apparent noon1
the following day, the clocks
would read 12:00; setting them back at night while the passengers slept would
no doubt have made for an easier adjustment on passengers’ body-clocks. A
1924 brochure for the Olympic’s passengers stated:
It is necessary to put the clock back every 24 hours. The alteration in
time is made at about midnight, and the clock is usually put back from
35 to 45 minutes on each occasion, the exact amount of time depending
upon the distance the ship is estimated to make by noon the next day.
During the first 24 hours, however, owing to the change from mean
time to apparent time, the alteration is likely to be considerably more
than 45 minutes.
2
That this alteration was usually made at midnight aboard the Titanic herself is
confirmed by the evidence of Second Officer Lightoller and Third Officer
Pitman. Pitman’s testimony is revealing:
Senator SMITH: When were the ship’s clocks set; do you know?
Mr. PITMAN: They are set at midnight every night.
Senator SMITH: They were set at midnight?
Mr. PITMAN: Every night.
Pitman continued: ‘They are corrected in the forenoon, perhaps half a minute
or a minute; that is all.’ Then Second Officer Lightoller added: ‘The clocks
are set at midnight, but that is for the approximate noon position of the
following day. Therefore [at noon the next day] the clocks will be accurate.’3
However, every time the clocks were adjusted, this resulted in a
lengthening of the night watches. If all of this was placed into a single watch,
crewmen could rightly have complained. However, it is known that the time
shift was carried out among the two night watches for the crew. The
adjustment was split roughly equally, with the first half being carried out at
12:00 midnight, and the second being carried out at 4:00 a.m. Both of these
adjustments would thus be after all public rooms had closed, and after
passengers were supposed to be in bed.
Beyond this, it can be established that no adjustment had been made to the
Titanic’s clocks up to midnight on Sunday, April 14. How? Third Officer
Pitman was asked: ‘Were they set at midnight Sunday night?’ Pitman replied:
‘No; we had something else to think of.’
Quartermaster George Rowe was on duty at the time of the collision. He
later said that his ‘watch should have ended at 12:22 but time went by and no
relief turned up,’ a clear reference to unadjusted ship’s time.
4 Frederick Fleet
also said that he and Lee, on duty in the Crow’s Nest at the time of the
collision, were to have a watch that was ‘about 2 hours and 20 minutes’ in
length.
5 Quartermaster Hichens, at the ship’s helm, was also relieved at 12:23
a.m. by Quartermaster Perkis.
6 Obviously, all of these survivors, on duty at
the time of the collision, could not have been wrong about expecting a clock
adjustment at midnight that night.
It is also clear that the adjustment was never carried out. When Hichens
was relieved, he also specifically noted that it was at 12:23 a.m., not 12:00 as
the clock would read if the ship’s clocks had already been adjusted. That
being the case, why weren’t the clocks set back as was expected? As Pitman
said, after the collision, ‘we had something else to think of’.
7
Some have postulated that the first of the two clock setbacks actually
occurred at 10:00 p.m. on the evening of April 14. However, there is
evidence to the contrary. First, there is the testimony of Quartermaster
Hichens at the American Inquiry, which does not seem to allow for such a
possibility. How so?
Hichens was on duty from 8–12 p.m. He clearly stated that his watch that
night was to total four hours’ time, ‘two hours standby and two hours at the
wheel’. He was also clear in saying that he was not relieved until 12:23 a.m.
unadjusted time.
8
If an adjustment had been made to the ship’s clocks at 10:00
p.m., and another was due again at midnight, then Hichens would have been
on duty for 4 hours and 47 minutes – nearly five hours, not the ‘four hours’
Hichens referred to. Starting at 8:00 and running until 10:00, Hichens was the
Standby Quartermaster while Olliver had the helm; then he took the wheel
from Olliver at 10:00 p.m., at which point Olliver became the Standby
Quartermaster. From their 10:00 p.m. switch until the collision, Hichens said
he was on duty at the wheel for ‘one hour and forty minutes’.
9
In addition to Hichens’ statements, if half of the adjustment was made
while some passengers were still awake, and others were asleep in their
rooms, one could expect a wide variation in the recollections of passengers
and crew as to when the ship hit the iceberg, and when it sank. Yet, the large
majority of survivor evidence points to the collision having occurred at about
11:40 p.m. and the sinking occurring at 2:20 a.m. Finally, it should be pointed
out that no actual evidence has been presented to the effect that the ship’s
clocks were adjusted in any way before midnight, at a time such as 10:00 p.m.
The midnight adjustment was to be the first of the night, and the second
adjustment, amounting to some 24 minutes, would have been made at 4:00
a.m. on the morning of April 15.10
As a result of this, it can be seen that all through the day of Sunday, April
14, Titanic’s clocks were running at the estimated position of that ship for
noon of that same day. What time was that? Based upon navigational
evidence, this would amount to 2 hours and 2 minutes ahead of New York
Time, and 2 hours and 58 minutes behind Greenwich Mean Time, based upon
her noon position of 43° 02’ N 44° 31’ W.
11
This navigational evidence is supported by evidence from Harold Bride.
Senator SMITH: Did you have a watch or clock in your room?
Mr. BRIDE: We had two clocks, sir.
Senator SMITH: Were they both running?
Mr. BRIDE: Yes sir, one was keeping New York time and the other
was keeping ship’s time.
Senator FLETCHER: The difference was about 1 hour and 55
minutes?
Mr. BRIDE: There was about two hours’ difference between the
two.12
During his testimony, Bride obviously felt it necessary to correct Senator
Fletcher in showing that ship’s time was then running about two hours ahead
of New York Time, not 1 hour and 55 minutes. His testimony is particularly
important since the clock in the Marconi Room keeping ship’s time was tied
into the Magneta circuit, which was a slave clock to the master clocks on the
Bridge.
13
It was obviously important for the Marconi Operators to be able to
record transmission and reception times in New York Time.
Unfortunately, the matter has recently become a subject of contention
among some Titanic researchers because the 2 hour and 2 minute time
difference places the clocks of the Titanic and the Californian only about
twelve minutes apart. This is inconvenient for some of the Californian’s
staunchest defenders, as it happens to support some of the evidence that the
Californian saw the Titanic’s distress rockets.
However, it should be stressed that this information was first turned up by
a defender of Captain Lord, Leslie Harrison, and is supported by firm
navigational and eyewitness evidence. Although a number of erroneous time
estimates for ship’s time have been advocated – beginning with the three
formal inquiries into the disaster – the 2 hour and 2 minute time is the only
one that is backed up by a broad spectrum of data and fits in with the known
speeds and locations of the ship right from when she left Southampton.
Appendix E: Taking Evasive Action
Ever since 1912, the often-repeated story of the collision goes something
along these lines:
… At a little before 11.40, one of the look-outs in the crow’s nest
struck three blows on the gong, (Hichens, 969) which was the
accepted warning for something ahead, following this immediately
afterwards by a telephone message to the bridge ‘Iceberg right ahead.’
Almost simultaneously with the three gong signal Mr. Murdoch, the
officer of the watch, gave the order ‘Hard-a-starboard’, and
immediately telegraphed down to the engine room ‘Stop. Full speed
astern.’ (Boxhall, 15346) The helm was already ‘hard over’, and the
ship’s head had fallen off about two points to port, when she collided
with an iceberg well forward on her starboard side.
Mr. Murdoch at the same time pulled the lever over which closed
the watertight doors in the engine and boiler rooms. (15352) …
… From the evidence given it appears that the ‘Titanic’ had turned
about two points to port before the collision occurred. From various
experiments subsequently made with the s.s. ‘Olympic’, a sister ship
to the ‘Titanic’, it was found that travelling at the same rate as the
‘Titanic’, about 37 seconds would be required for the ship to change
her course to this extent after the helm had been put hard-a-starboard.
In this time the ship would travel about 466 yards, and allowing for
the few seconds that would be necessary for the order to be given, it
may be assumed that 500 yards was about the distance at which the
iceberg was sighted either from the bridge or crow’s-nest.
1
A period illustration of how Olympic and Titanic turned.
However convincing this may sound, the reality is that the Court’s conclusions
were wrong in certain fundamental respects.
Thirty-Seven Seconds?
For starters, let’s take the 37-second portion of their conclusion. Where did
this estimate come from? Edward Wilding testified:
Since the accident, we have tried the ‘Olympic’ to see how long it
took her to turn two points, which was referred to in some of the early
evidence. She was running at about 74 revolutions, that corresponds to
about 21-and-a-half knots, and from the time the order was given to
put the helm hard over till the vessel had turned two points was 37
seconds.
2
While the data in itself is very useful information, how does it compare with
the situation the Titanic was in as Murdoch took evasive action to avoid the
iceberg? Certainly, the Olympic and Titanic maneuvered very comparably
because of their identical size, weight,
3 and rudders, as well as the close
parallel between their machinery. However, the Titanic was cutting through
the water at almost precisely 22.5 knots, not 21.5 knots. Although the
difference might seem inconsequential, the one-knot difference would have
introduced significant variables in the maneuvering characteristics of the
vessels.
Also, it should be noted that the time being estimated was from the time
that the officer gave the order to turn Olympic’s wheel to the time that she had
achieved a turn of two points. One point equaled 11.25°, so two points
equaled 22.5°. But why was this time measurement taken only to a turn of that
degree? Apparently, this was based on the testimony of Quartermaster
Hichens, who said that the Titanic had ‘just swung about two points when she
struck’ the iceberg.
4
Yet, the Titanic may not have turned quite that far when she first made
contact with the iceberg. Lookout Fleet thought that she had not turned quite
that much. He said that she had turned only ‘a little over a point, or two
points’ before the collision.
5 We also know from Quartermaster Olliver that
Murdoch reversed his turn as the iceberg passed the Bridge, ordering: ‘Hard
to port!’
6
Some have argued that despite Olliver’s testimony, this order never took
place. These critics typically cite the evidence of Quartermaster Hichens,
who was at the wheel at the time, and who said nothing about the matter in his
testimonies in the two inquiries. However, Carpathia passenger Howard
Chapin interviewed Hichens while they were both on the Carpathia, just a
day or so after the sinking. In this account, Hichens plainly related that a
‘hard-a-port’ order was given just seconds after the ‘hard-a-starboard’
order.
7
 It is unknown why Hichens did not mention this in the inquiries.
However, the basic truth is that since the Titanic was steered from the
rudder at her stern, if she was allowed to continue under the port turn without
alteration, significant damage would have taken place over a much greater
length of the starboard side than actually happened. The only thing that
explains the lack of any hull damage aft of midships along the ship’s side is
that Murdoch reversed his turn when the bow began to swing to port. Such a
maneuver would also explain Quartermaster Rowe’s testimony that when the
ship stopped her ‘head was facing north’.
8
From all of this, it seems likely that the two full points Hichens was
referring to was the maximum swing of the bow before the ‘hard to port’
order began to take effect and the ship began to turn the other way. In other
words, the collision most likely began before the ship’s swing had reached
two full points. All of this means it is nearly certain that less than thirty-seven
seconds elapsed from the time that Murdoch gave the ‘hard to starboard’
order until the first moment of the collision.
Additionally, the court concluded rather speciously that Murdoch’s order
to turn to starboard came ‘almost simultaneously’ with the sounding of the
bell. However, Fleet had phoned down to and conversed with Moody after
sounding the warning bell. Then Moody had relayed the warning to Murdoch.
All of this happened before Murdoch’s order to turn was given. Both Hichens
and Fleet agreed that about a half a minute elapsed during that time before
Murdoch’s order to turn was given.
9 Lastly, even Boxhall indicated that the
evasive action was taken only very shortly before the collision, saying that
Murdoch’s spoken ‘hard to starboard’ order was given ‘just a moment before’
the collision.
10
A Bungled Maneuver?
Another detail regarding the evasive action which needs addressing has to do
with Hichens’ actions at the wheel, and a theory which has recently received
widespread media attention. Before presenting the details of this theory, it is
important to understand the typical confusion which has surrounded the helm
orders given by First Officer Murdoch: in a holdover from the days when
tillers were used to control ship’s direction, in 1912 an order for ‘hard to
starboard’ literally meant to turn the ship’s bow to port. This was because
pushing the tiller to starboard would have turned the rudder – and thus the
ship – in the opposite direction.
With this in mind, according to this theory, while most ships of the time
had the ‘reversed’ helm, the Titanic’s helm was of a new style, where a
starboard order meant just that. In the heat of the moment, the story goes,
Hichens bungled the steering maneuver, panicking and turning the wrong
way.
11
It is alleged that these precious lost seconds doomed the ship to strike
the iceberg, thus making Hichens the man responsible for sinking the Titanic.
This purported blunder was allegedly covered up by everyone involved, but
Lightoller himself is supposed to have passed the details on to his wife,
Sylvia, before he died.
While this theory received a great deal of media attention, the ‘facts’ as
presented simply do not add up. For starters, Lightoller was not even present
when the evasive action was taken, and was instead asleep in his berth at the
time. Supposedly, the information was relayed to him by those present, during
a conference between the four senior officers shortly after the collision.
However, one has to wonder: when did this alleged confab take place? None
of the other officers ever formally informed Lightoller that the ship was
sinking, so when would they have had time to convey such a blunder by the
helmsman to him?
Even if such a conference did take place, and the information was passed
on directly to Lightoller, the theory as it was revealed to the public did not
even come directly from Lightoller. Rather, it was supposedly presented by
the senior officers to Lightoller, then to Lightoller’s wife Sylvia, and then
from Sylvia to other members of their family. Basing such a startling revision
of history upon a single source – let alone a fourth-hand one at that – is not a
particularly good place to start.
Finally, even the simple premise that the story is based on – namely, that
Titanic’s helm was set up differently from other ships of the era – is not based
in fact. We know from evidence presented in the Olympic/Hawke inquiry that
Olympic’s helm adhered to the ‘reversed’ design which was standard in 1912.
The Brown’s Patent Telemotors that the wheels were attached to, and which
relayed commands hydraulically to the rudder, were of a single patented
design. Their use was common not only to the Olympic and Titanic, but also
on other famous ships such as the Lusitania, Mauretania, and later the
Aquitania. In other words, all of the ships whose helms were controlled by
Brown’s Patent Telemotors functioned identically – whether they were ships
built shortly before or shortly after the Titanic.
12
While the helms were rigged identically on various British liners of the
period, is it possible that the orders were misunderstood somehow? The
answer is again negative. In the 1913–1914 International Conference on
Safety of Life at Sea, the Conference recommended that ‘in view of the
diversity of practice and opinion the … different countries, the question of the
adoption of a uniform system of helm orders should be considered’. Such
confusion was thus the result of various nations having different and nonuniform systems of giving and interpreting helm orders. However, no formal
international rule was laid out by that Conference, and neither was such a rule
made in the 1929 International Conference on Safety of Life at Sea. In 1931,
one reason for the lack of such a rule was given by W. Graham, President of
the Board of Trade, in June of 1931:
The reluctance of British seamen to change their traditional system,
and the misgiving which some of them feel as to possible danger in the
event of a change of their system, were fully stated by the British
delegates [at the 1929 Conference].
13
So even as late as 1929, British seamen were opposed to changing their
method of giving helm orders from the traditional system which was in use
aboard Titanic in 1912, and which had been in use for something like three
hundred years. It was not until 1935 that all maritime nations informally
agreed that the direction of a turn should be referenced by the direction of the
rudder rather than the direction of the helm or tiller.
One last straw which some might grasp at on this subject is: the Titanic
was an American-owned ship. Is it not possible that this in some way opened
the way for the alleged confusion? In a word, no. The Titanic may have been
American-owned, but she was built to British Board of Trade specifications
as a British-flagged vessel. Additionally, the officers and men on the Bridge
that night were to a man British seamen – the same stock of British seamen
who, in 1929, were noted to be opposed to the changing their long-standing
tradition of helm orders. In short, there is no basis to believe that there was
any confusion about the intended direction of turn on the night in question.
Murdoch’s helm orders were promptly and correctly carried out by
Quartermaster Hichens under the watchful eye of Sixth Officer Moody.
Were the Engines Reversed?
Finally, we come upon the subject of the order to reverse the ship’s engines.
Fourth Officer Boxhall is the only person who testified that Murdoch ordered
‘Full Astern’ on the telegraphs prior to the collision. Although the exact
details given vary, Firemen Frederick Barrett and George Beauchamp,
Trimmer Patrick Dillon, and Greasers Thomas Ranger and Frederick Scott –
who were down in the Engine and Boiler Rooms – all testified to having
received the order of ‘Stop’ either just prior to the collision or right after the
collision, or to having seen the engines stop. None testified as to having
received a ‘Full Astern’ order prior to the collision.
14
Back on the Bridge, while Hichens, Olliver and Boxhall all recalled the
conversation between Captain Smith and First Officer Murdoch, only Boxhall
included the segment of having ‘run the engines full astern’. According to
Hichens at the American Inquiry:
The skipper came rushing out of his room – Capt. Smith – and asked,
‘What is that?’ Mr. Murdoch said, ‘An iceberg.’ … Capt. Smith [said]
to Mr. Murdoch: ‘Close the emergency doors.’ Mr. Murdoch replied,
‘The doors are already closed.’15
Hichens recalled at the British Inquiry that ‘about a minute … after the
collision the Captain rushed out of his room and asked Mr. Murdoch what was
that and he said, “An iceberg, Sir”, and he said, “Close the watertight door.”
… [Murdoch said], “They are already closed.” ’16
Olliver recalled that as he entered the Bridge, he watched as Murdoch
‘turned the lever over and closed’ the watertight doors. Then, ‘just after she
struck’, he overheard Murdoch report ‘to the captain that they [the watertight
doors] were closed’. Again, there was no mention of reversing the engines; in
fact, Olliver said that the engines were not reversed while he was on the
Bridge, although he did remember Captain Smith subsequently telegraphing
‘Half Ahead’.
17 However, he also said that the ship had ‘almost stopped’
when the engines were put at ‘Half Ahead’. Knowing that, he agreed with
Senator Burton’s conclusion that ‘he must have backed the engines, then’.
Of the three, Boxhall alone recalled the same exchange, but with the added
detail:
The captain said, ‘What have we struck?’ Mr. Murdoch, the first
officer, said, ‘We have struck an iceberg. … I put her hard astarboard
and run the engines full astern, but it was too close; she hit it.’ … Mr.
Murdoch also said, ‘I intended to port around it. … But she hit before
I could do any more.’ … Mr. Murdoch continued to say, ‘The watertight doors are closed, sir.’ … [And] the captain asked him if he had
rung the warning bell. … [Murdoch] said, ‘Yes, sir.’18
At the British Inquiry, Boxhall’s recollection was nearly identical:
The Captain was alongside of me when I turned round. … [He] asked
[Murdoch] what we had struck. … The first officer said, ‘An iceberg,
Sir. I hard-a-starboarded and reversed the engines, and I was going to
hard-a-port round it but she was too close. I could not do any more. I
have closed the watertight doors.’ The commander asked him if he had
rung the warning bell, and he said, ‘Yes.’
We do know that the ship’s engines were engaged in reverse shortly after the
collision. Trimmer Thomas Dillon recalled that the engine order telegraph had
rung only ‘two seconds’ before the ship struck the berg. The engines then
stopped about ‘a minute and a half’ after the collision, and then about ‘a half a
minute’ later, they ‘went slow astern’ for about ‘two minutes’. Subsequently
he recalled them going forward again, which would match up quite nicely
with Quartermaster Olliver’s evidence that Captain Smith had re-started the
engines at ‘Half Ahead’ shortly after the collision.
19
The testimony of Trimmer Dillon is at least partially reinforced by the
recollections of Quartermaster Rowe. He said that following the collision, as
the iceberg passed along the side of the ship, he felt vibrations on the stern
from the engines reversing, and pulled the taffrail log in to prevent the line
from fouling the propellers.
20 Although he wasn’t on the Bridge at the time,
Third Officer Pitman also testified that he was told that the ship went full
astern after the collision, not before.
21
Similarly, Charles Stengel recalled hearing the engines stop ‘two or three
minutes’ after the impact, and that they next ‘started again just slightly; just
started to move again’.
22
 Mrs Hoyt recalled hearing a ‘noise … which seemed
to indicate that the engines of the ship had reversed’.
23
So when did Murdoch order the engines reversed? It is difficult to say.
24
From several different lines of evidence, it seems most likely that less than
thirty seconds had elapsed from the time when Murdoch gave his order on the
engine order telegraphs – whatever order that was – to the time of the impact.
Thus, even if Murdoch had initially rung down an order for ‘Full Speed
Astern’ on the engines, it is very unlikely that the engines would have been
reversed before the collision. Why?
If such an order had been rung down, the engineers would have faced a
complex process: the throttles to the two main engines needed to be closed,
and their rotations allowed to slow until they were nearly stopped; only then
could the reversing levers be thrown over and the throttles opened back up. It
has been estimated:
Under the best of circumstances, with engineers standing by to receive
orders via the telegraphs, reciprocating engines of the size and type on
Titanic could be stopped and reversed within 30 seconds, with
another 50 to 60 seconds elapsing before the engines would be
backing hard. On the night of April 14th, however, an emergency Full
Astern order would have caught the engineering watch completely by
surprise, so additional reaction time would have to be factored in.
25
So whatever Murdoch’s initial order at the telegraph was, due to the
mechanical design of the ship, the speed with which her engines were being
operated, and the short period of time between the sighting of the berg and the
impact, it is quite clear that the engines could not have been brought down
from full speed and then reversed before the collision was felt. As the engines
did not affect the overall evasive maneuver, the exact order Murdoch gave
actually played no part in the collision. Coincidentally, this fact clears the
cloud which has hovered over Murdoch’s reputation – perpetuated after the
fact – which intimates that his maneuver had actually doomed the ship.
Another question arises, looking at the sequence of events afresh: what
was Murdoch doing during the roughly thirty seconds between the time that the
warning was rung down on the bell and the time he gave the order to
starboard the helm and he ran to the engine order telegraphs? Murdoch very
likely spotted the iceberg concurrent with the lookouts, particularly since he
was lower to the water, and the iceberg would likely have blotted out more of
the stars from the horizon than it would have from the lookouts’ position.
Perhaps Murdoch was carefully ascertaining the berg’s extremities in the
darkness, whether the ship was actually on a collision course with the berg,
and – once he realized it was – which direction and what course of action
seemed best. Only once he had gone through these three steps would he have
given the orders to take evasive action.
As even a cursory examination of the actual testimony by the eyewitnesses
shows, events played out rather differently than has been commonly accepted
over the years. Even the evasive action taken did not happen as is commonly
represented in books, documentaries and films on the subject.
Appendix F: The Iceberg Damage
For many years, the common perception was that the Titanic’s hull was torn
open like tinfoil by the collision with the iceberg, opening a gash along almost
three hundred feet of her length. The simple fact is, however, that the Titanic
would have sunk very quickly had her hull been shredded in such a manner.
Even as early as the British Inquiry, this legend was laid to rest on good
authority.
After listening to the eyewitness evidence on the levels of the water, and
what time those were observed after the collision, Harland & Wolff’s Edward
Wilding was able to estimate how much water had entered the vessel in so
many minutes; these calculations allowed him to compute the approximate
size of the actual iceberg damage. He related:
I cannot believe that the wound was absolutely continuous the whole
way. I believe that it was in a series of steps, and that … it was the
end of one of the series of wounds which flooded the different spaces
[Boiler Rooms Nos. 6 and 5].
My estimate for the size of the hole required (and making some
allowance for the obstruction due to the presence of decks and other
things.), is that the total area through which water was entering the
ship, was somewhere about 12 square feet. The extent of the damage
fore and aft, that is from the foremost puncture to the aftermost
puncture in the cross bunker at the forward end of No. 5 boiler room,
is about 500 [sic] feet, and the average width of the hole extending the
whole way is only about three-quarters of an inch. That was my reason
for stating … that I believe it must have been in places, that is, not a
continuous rip. A hole three-quarters of an inch wide and 200 feet
long does not seem to describe to me the probable damage, but it must
have averaged about that amount. … It can only have been a
comparatively short length, and the aggregate of the holes must have
been somewhere about 12 square feet. One cannot put it any better
than that.
1
By and large, Wilding’s conclusions about the nature of the iceberg damage
were entirely forgotten by the public, who imagined that only a giant rent in
the hull could have felled the greatest ship in the world.
However, while well supported, Wilding’s calculations lacked direct
evidence to confirm them. When the wreck was discovered in 1985, hopes
were high that the original iceberg damage could be found and photographed.
Unfortunately, when the bow made contact with the soft sediments of the sea
floor, it had buried itself nearly up to the anchors at the bow. This effectively
hid all of the forward damage from visibility. However, when Ballard
explored the wreck in 1986, he was able to explore the lower starboard side
hull in the vicinity of Boiler Rooms Nos 5 and 6, where the sediment was not
as deeply piled up. Since Frederick Barrett had given clear testimony of side
damage running along the starboard hull in this vicinity, this seemed to be the
only area where such original testimony might be confirmed.
These two images show the iceberg damage locations reported by Paul Matthias’ sonar survey.
The upper image shows the damage along the shell of the hull, while the lower one shows the
various compartments breached. The aft-most segment of damage, which stretches for about fortyfive feet, is still visible on the wreck. This final segment of damage is the one which sealed Titanic’s
fate.
Exactly as expected, some of the hull plates along the starboard hull –
right in the vicinity of Boiler Room No. 6 – were clearly damaged. Ballard
reported that the …
… damage we were able to observe and photograph seemed quite
minor: a number of separated and horizontally creased hull plates, the
openings ranging from less than an inch to six inches in width. On the
bases of the portion of the damaged hull we were able to see – from a
point just aft of the Well Deck to its furthest aft point a couple of feet
into boiler room No. 5 (roughly between hull frames 58 and 80
forward) – Wilding’s hypothesis that the damage was intermittent
seems to be supported.2
While such damage might be attributable to the impact with the sea floor, this
was damage directly where Barrett’s eyewitness testimony placed it. Instead
of being viewed from the inside of the damaged Boiler Room, it was instead
being seen from the outside for the very first time.
In 1996, sonar specialist Paul Matthias, in cooperation with RMS Titanic,
Inc., did a survey of the mud-covered regions of the bow. He reported finding
six sections of iceberg damage-related deformations in the hull, including the
one visible along the side of Boiler Room No. 6. His findings seemed to
closely match the reported damage done to the ship. Critics of his work point
out that Matthias found much more damage which he did not choose to report,
including damage on the port side of the hull, thus negating the usefulness of
any of his findings. However, as the damage pattern so closely harmonizes
with the known extent of the damage done to the ship, it should not be so
quickly dismissed.
One thing that Matthias did not claim to be able to do is discern the width
of these deformations in the hull; however, as their width could have been
affected when the ship impacted with the sea floor, that fact does not negate
the value of knowing the locations of the deformations, which were spread out
over a length of roughly 230 feet.
3
Interestingly, even the trace damage
Matthias reported in the Forepeak harmonizes with the damage pattern
reported by Hemming and others, in that it was below the top of the Peak
Tank.
In other words, intermittent contact with the iceberg caused a number of
openings in the hull of the ship along the starboard side. Each of these was
rather small in nature and on their own would have posed no threat to the
ship’s safety. However, spread out over the length of the ship, they were
enough to doom the liner.
Opening the Watertight Doors?
While the subject of the iceberg damage and subsequent flooding is being
discussed, a brief mention might be made of an often-repeated bit of criticism
against the ship’s officers and crew. It has been suggested that the ship’s
watertight doors should have been opened after the collision, allowing water
to flow aft along the bottom of the ship. This, it is proclaimed, would have
allowed the ship to settle evenly into the water, and to have stayed afloat for
far longer.
This theory is entirely implausible. It fails to take into account the fact that
if this had been done, the ship would have lost her longitudinal stability, and
thus her ability to remain upright in the water; this means that she would have
listed at a steep angle, before rolling over and sinking. It is estimated that this
would have happened about a half hour sooner than she sank in reality.
Beyond that, she also would have lost power sooner than actually happened,
plunging everyone into darkness, interfering with the lifeboat loading and
ability to send distress calls, and ultimately causing panic and more deaths
among those still aboard.4 More people would likely have died before
Carpathia arrived as well.
Also complicating this theory is the fact that no watertight doors
interconnected the forward four watertight compartments (Forepeak through
Cargo Hold No. 3); this means that the majority of the damaged areas were
not accessible to compartments aft by the opening of watertight doors. Finally,
even if the crew had opened the watertight doors between the remaining
compartments, the flotation mechanisms built in to the doors would have
closed them as soon as incoming seawater lifted them.
Appendix G: The Duff Gordon Affair
Perhaps no incident on the night of the sinking is more mysterious to modern
researchers than the events that transpired in Boat No. 1 after it left the
Titanic’s Boat Deck, and before it tied up alongside the Carpathia.
On the night that the Carpathia docked in New York, Lady Lucy and Sir
Cosmo Duff Gordon dined with a few of their friends, including Abraham
Merritt, the editor of the New York American. Lady Duff Gordon freely gave
her account to her friends.
About a half hour after Mr Merritt left, he called her on the telephone.
‘Mr. Hurst has just rung me up,’ he said, ‘and must have your story of the
“Titanic” wreck for tomorrow morning’s newspaper. May I tell your story as I
have heard it?’ She gave her permission, and the story went to press the next
morning, first appearing in the New York American of Friday, April 19, 1912.1
The account was quite vivid, and gave some interesting details about the
sinking. It was also worded in the ‘first person’ manner, suggesting to the lay
reader that it was a direct quotation rather than a later summation by a
reporter.
However, when called to testify at the British Inquiry, Lady Duff Gordon
flatly denied many of the details of the account as it subsequently appeared in
the London Daily News, and claimed that many of the details were an
‘invention’ by the reporter.
2
When one goes back to read the paper’s story, however, the modern
researcher is more or less left scratching his or her head. Many of the details
in that newspaper account harmonize beautifully with Sir Cosmo Duff
Gordon’s testimony at the British Inquiry, and also with original private
letters written by Lady Duff Gordon to family and acquaintances.
3
 Many of the
details also agree closely with those given in her personal autobiography,
written in 1932.4
Included among these was that she awoke her husband after
the collision, that after more than one investigation he ascertained their need
to dress and head up to the Boat Deck, and even the fact that Boat No. 1 was
about 200 yards away from the ship when the ship sank – something that is
nearly unanimously agreed upon by occupants of the boat who touched on the
point.
Nevertheless, at the Inquiry Lucy took exception to a large portion of the
newspaper account attributed to her, calling it ‘rather inventive’.
5
In
particular, she denied some of the events on the Boat Deck, as they were about
to board Boat No. 1, that the newspaper account had detailed. She denied that
an officer had asked if she was ready to board,6
that she had said to her
husband that they might as well board the boat, even though it would be ‘a
little pleasure excursion until the morning’,
7
the terminology of referring to
Boat No. 1 as ‘the captain’s special boat’,
8 and so forth. She also took
exception to statements in the article concerning specific details of the final
moments of the ship, and whether she heard any cries for assistance after the
sinking. She specifically stated that the occupants of her boat were nearly
silent throughout the sinking. She also said very definitely that after the
Titanic sank, she ‘never heard a cry’, although she heard ‘terrible cries’
before the ship sank. ‘My impression,’ she recalled of the time after the
sinking, ‘was that there was absolute silence.’9
Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon testifies at the British Inquiry.
Where does the truth lie? What is clear today is that the boat did not return
to aid swimmers in the water, even though it was only about 200 yards away
from the site, and many of the boat’s occupants recalled hearing the pleas for
assistance clearly. Leading Fireman Charles Hendrickson said that he
suggested going back, but the passengers – particularly Sir Cosmo and the two
female occupants, Lady Duff Gordon and her secretary, Laura Francatelli
10 –
objected that they would be swamped if they did so. It is also quite clear that
about twenty to thirty minutes after the Titanic sank, Sir Cosmo offered £5 to
each of the crewmen in his boat, ostensibly to start a new kit.
11 Once aboard
the Carpathia, this gesture was in fact paid – apparently in the form of a £5
order.
12 From other evidence, it is quite clear that the cries in the water went
on for quite some time after the sinking, gradually diminishing; in other words,
according to Sir Cosmo’s own recollections, his offer of £5 was made
concurrent with the time that many other survivors said the cries for assistance
were still audible. Whether the offer was made in innocence or not, it
certainly looked very suspicious.
To an unjustifiable extent, any male survivor of the wreck had a lot of
explaining to do to a very irate public. However, all of the occupants of Boat
No. 1 seemed destined to particular scrutiny, as it only carried twelve
occupants – about one-quarter its full capacity. As the Duff Gordons steamed
east from New York to Europe aboard the Lusitania, the press had a field day
with their story. They openly stated that Sir Cosmo had, in an act of
cowardice, bribed the crew into not returning and helping those in the water.
When the couple disembarked the Lusitania in Liverpool upon their arrival in
England, they went to catch the Boat Train to London. At the station,
newsboys ran by shouting, ‘Read about the Titanic coward!’ Nearby placards
advertising newspaper stories read, ‘Baronet and Wife Row Away from the
Drowning’, and, ‘Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon Safe and Sound While Women Go
Down on Titanic’. Lucy recalled her husband’s face was stricken. When they
reached home, they found a barrage of letters; some supportive from friends,
others filled with hate.
13
The actual truth of what happened and – more importantly – why it
happened may never be known. Yet it is quite clear, from her private
correspondence with Mrs Asquith, that Lady Duff Gordon was worried about
her husband. The direct assaults on their reputation weighed heavily upon him
– and with good reason. Whether or not the attacks were true on any level, the
Duff Gordons had a reputation to uphold and social circles of the day were
loathe to forgive even perceived mistakes; the stories could have ended Lady
Duff Gordon’s career. They could quickly have found themselves ostracized
from proper society.
No matter whether the offer of £5 had been made as a generous gift or as a
direct or implied bribe, the whole affair simply looked bad. Thus, it becomes
very clear why Lady Duff Gordon was so adamant that they had never heard
the cries for assistance. Although there is a consensus that after the Titanic
sank she became violently ill – whether due to shock and fear or due to
seasickness – there is little reason to believe that she could not have heard
such a clamor from a distance of only 200 yards in the still of night and in an
open boat.
On this subject, Lady Duff Gordon’s account from the newspaper story is
far more believable than her story at the Inquiry. This begs the question: What
else from that newspaper story – given among good friends immediately after
landing in New York, and before things got ugly in the press – was accurate,
and what was not? Obviously, some portions of it were very inconvenient in
light of the controversy that engulfed the couple upon returning to England.
Was it true, as Lady Duff Gordon asserted at the British Inquiry, that the
newspaper editor sent along his rough comments, and then they were later
worked up by a clever writer? Or was the story something that was more
carefully transcribed and published, but which Lady Duff Gordon was forced
to deny because it had started a terrible wave of controversy? Is it possible
that the essence of the story was accurate, but that certain portions of it were
not transcribed completely accurately, giving Lady Duff Gordon the
opportunity to pick it apart from the witness stand?
If any portion of her newspaper account agrees with statements that she
made in her personal letters, or in her testimony, or in her autobiography, or is
in harmony with the general evidence given by others, then it is most likely
accurate and has been included in the narrative as such. Where the accounts
differ, it is likely that the exact truth will never be known.
A staged reenactment of an officer shooting steerage passengers on the Titanic. The re-enactment
was photographed on the Mauretania.
Appendix H: Incidents of Gunfire During the Sinking
Of all the mysteries relating to the sinking of the Titanic, incidents of gunfire
remain one of the most controversial. Three instances of shots fired prior to
the sinking were discussed in the inquiries, and can be documented to varying
degrees by sources other than the testimony.
The most thoroughly documented shooting event took place during the
lowering of Boat No. 14, when the crowd began to get unruly and attempted to
rush the boat. Fifth Officer Lowe testified that as his boat was lowering past
A Deck, he saw a group of ‘Italians’ preparing to jump into it, and fired three
shots along the side of the ship to warn them off. Lowe felt that he had
overloaded No. 14, and that the sudden jerk of someone jumping down into
the boat might cause it to buckle. Lowe stated emphatically that the shots were
aimed at no one in particular, and that nobody was hit.
1
Lowe’s version of events is backed up by, among others, the accounts of
Able Bodied Seaman Joseph Scarrott, Saloon Steward George Crowe, and
First Class passenger Sara Compton, who all stated that he fired warning
shots;
2 First Class passenger Daisy Minahan, who said Lowe threatened to
shoot any man who tried jumping into the boat,
3 and Second Class passenger
Charlotte Collyer, who claimed Lowe only threatened men with a revolver.
4
Another incident of gunfire that was documented in the inquiries, albeit by
one eyewitness, relates to warning shots fired during the launch of
Collapsible C. This event is very controversial, because this is the boat that J.
Bruce Ismay, the Managing Director of the White Star Line, was rescued in.
Ismay himself testified that there was no struggle on the part of the men to get
into boats, and that when he stepped aboard Collapsible C, there were no
passengers left on deck.
5
Quartermaster George Rowe’s testimony partially corroborates Ismay’s
claim, indicating that while there were still crewmembers on deck as the
collapsible lowered, there were no women and children or passengers.
6
Barber August Weikman said that there were no women in the vicinity when
Ismay boarded the boat,
7 as did Third Class Pantry Steward Albert Pearcey,
8
and First Class passenger William Carter.
9 None mentioned gunfire or panic.
Carter did qualify his statement, claiming that he heard no shooting while he
was on the Titanic, but could not say what happened after he left the ship.10
First Class passenger Hugh Woolner’s testimony in the Senate Inquiry
contradicts what the crewmembers and Ismay had to say about the conditions
surrounding the launch of Collapsible C. Woolner testified that he and fellow
First Class passenger Mauritz Håkan Björnström-Steffansson were helping
load Collapsible D on the port side when they heard shouting on the starboard
side of the ship. Curious, they crossed over in enough time to see two flashes
of a pistol in the air, and First Officer Murdoch shouting at men who had been
‘swarming’ into the collapsible there to get out of the boat.
11 BjörnströmSteffansson confirmed Woolner’s versions of events, saying that he saw one of
the officers ‘fire his revolver into the air twice’.
12
First Class passenger Jack Thayer claimed to have seen Ismay ‘push’ his
way into the last lifeboat. Thayer agreed that two shots were fired to stop men
from boarding the boats, but believed that the person who fired them was
Purser Hugh McElroy, not Murdoch.
13 Fireman Harry Senior said that he saw
the ‘first officer’ produce a revolver and fire what he took to be warning
shots aimed over the heads of two or three men who were trying to rush the
boats.
14 Among others, Third Class passengers Emily Goldsmith and her son
Frankie Goldsmith gave additional supporting evidence. They independently
claimed that as Collapsible C was about to lower away, men tried rushing the
boat, and that an officer had to fire warning shots in the air to keep them
back.
15 Second Class passenger William Mellors stated that he saw an officer
threaten men with a revolver to prevent them from entering the boat as it
lowered.16 While the exact details of what happened are not clear, it is
difficult to reconcile the accounts that describe no crowds or panic at that
boat with those that indicate that warning shots were fired.
The only other incident of shots being fired prior to the sinking that is
mentioned in the Inquiries comes from Colonel Archibald Gracie. Gracie
testified that Second Officer Lightoller told him that he had to fire a pistol to
prevent Steerage passengers from rushing the last boat on the port side,
presumably Collapsible D. Gracie stated that this was hearsay, as he did not
see or hear this himself.
17
In his book, Gracie told a slightly different story.
He said that Lightoller told him that he drew his pistol and threatened the men
who rushed the last port boat, but mentions nothing about shots actually being
fired.18
In his own book, Lightoller claimed that he had to force men out of the
‘emergency boat’ by brandishing his ‘unloaded’ revolver.
19
While the evidence of gunfire at Collapsible D is hazy, it is clear that
there was some form of gunplay at that boat, possibly involving both
Lightoller and Chief Officer Wilde. First Class passenger Jane Hoyt stated
that when Collapsible D was partly filled with women and children, there
was a rush of ‘steerage passengers’ on the boat, and it ‘looked as if it might
be upset’. She said that Wilde pulled out his gun and ‘ordered every man in
the boat to get out’.
20
These are the only incidents of gunplay prior to the sinking that are
documented in the Inquiries. Eyewitness accounts from survivors who were
never called to testify indicate the possibility that there were additional
incidents; among these, there are even accounts which suggest that one of the
Titanic’s officers may have fired on passengers and then killed himself. While
the details are all rather hazy, it is clear that the events that played out as the
ship sank were not as calm as popular myth suggests, particularly in the latter
stages of the sinking.
21
Appendix I: The Loss of Deck Crew on the Titanic Over Time
As early as 1:00 a.m., during the loading of Lifeboat No. 6, Second Officer
Lightoller was lamenting the lack of seamen available to launch and man the
lowering lifeboats.
1 This is remarkable because, at that time, only four
lifeboats had left the ship (Nos 7, 5, 3 on the starboard side, and No. 8 on the
port). Was Lightoller’s assessment that few seamen were available accurate,
and if so, why were more not available to help during the evacuation? What
happened to them?
Since the following analysis discusses professional seamen who were
available to help launch the lifeboats, and man them once afloat, more than
just the Able Bodied Seamen have to be considered. It would be necessary to
include the other members of the Deck Department who would have been
called trained sailors, or fit the general description of ‘seaman’, ‘sailor’,
‘deckhand’, etc. This includes the six Quartermasters, all of whom left in
lifeboats, and who in most cases were in charge of the boat they were in. We
must also include the officers themselves, since we know that Captain Smith
and all of the senior and junior officers supervised, or took part in, the
loading and lowering of the boats. Furthermore, several of these – Lightoller,
Boxhall, Pitman, and Lowe – eventually took charge of lifeboats after they left
the ship. Of the sixty-six listed members of the Deck Department Crew, fortythree survived.2
We also know that Boatswain Alfred Nichols and six crewmen – very
likely all of whom were Able Bodied Seamen
3 – had been sent below by
Second Officer Lightoller during the loading of Lifeboat No. 6, at around 1:00
a.m. He had instructed them to try and open the D Deck Reception Room
doors, with the idea of making it possible for the lifeboats to come alongside
and take on additional passengers from those locations. Nichols and the six
men were never seen again after going below. Lightoller speculated that they
may have been trapped by rising water, but this cannot be confirmed.4
In most cases, we know which Deck Department members got off in which
lifeboat with certainty. The table and graph on the following page give details
regarding the lifeboats and who got off in each:

It may be that, since the readying and loading of the lifeboats started
earlier on the starboard side under First Officer Murdoch, there may have
been more crew available there than on the port side. However, there is no
way of proving that, beyond Lightoller’s recollection that he was shorthanded.
We do know that of the lookouts, five out of the six were on the starboard side
and boarded lifeboats there. This may be indicative of more seamen in
general having been on that side.
If fewer members of the Deck Department were available on the port side
of the ship, and Lightoller lost seven more after sending some below to the
gangway, he could very easily have been short of crew. This helps to explain
his offer to Major Arthur Peuchen to help man lifeboat No. 6, after Lamp
Trimmer Hemming had to step out of the boat to man one of the sets of falls
because there were not enough seamen nearby. Also, by the time No. 6 was
being loaded, passengers were starting to congregate around the aft port
lifeboats, and the situation there began to get disorderly; as discussed in the
narrative, the ruckus at the aft port boats drew crewmen from other parts of
the Boat Deck, such as Fifth Officer Lowe, Seamen Evans and Buley, and
quite a few others, all of whom came from working on the forward starboard
boats.
The above tables show that there were sixteen members of the Deck
Department still available on the Titanic when she sank at 2:20 a.m. This
number does not include the seven crewmembers who went below to the
gangway and never returned. Of these sixteen who remained until the end, four
of them were officers: Captain Smith, Chief Officer Wilde, First Officer
Murdoch, and Sixth Officer Moody, and two were Surgeons: Dr O’Loughlin,
and Dr Simpson. The remaining ten cannot be identified with certainty, since
we do not know which six seamen went below with Boatswain Nichols and
never returned; regardless, among those left would have been a number of
Able Bodied Seamen, as well as other Deck Department crewmen.
Obviously, as time went on, it became harder and harder to find
crewmembers to load and lower the lifeboats. And even then, some of the
remaining crew had to be ordered into the lifeboats rather than entering them
on their own; among these were Boxhall, Rowe, and Bright, who felt their
first duty was to help save others’ lives over their own. The evidence does
support Lightoller’s claim that he was shorthanded on the port side, and this
situation grew worse as members of the Deck Department were sent away to
man the boats. When one examines this evidence, it is even more remarkable
that all of the boats save Collapsibles A and B were safely lowered away.
Appendix J: The Music of the Titanic’s Band
By George Behe
[Note: This ‘guest appendix’ is based on an essay that George Behe wrote for
the Titanic Historical Society in 1983. This present essay has been footnoted,
and the book’s authors have asked George to supplement it with additional
information that he has uncovered since he wrote the original version. We
would like to thank George for granting us permission to reproduce his
complete, updated essay here.]
Ever since the Titanic went down in 1912 there has been controversy about
which musical selections were played by the ship’s gallant bandsmen during
the sinking. Legend has always had it that – after playing ragtime to bolster the
passengers’ spirits – the bandsmen played ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ in the
final moments before the great vessel foundered.
Walter Lord’s seminal work, A Night to Remember (published in 1955)
was responsible for a general change of opinion regarding the accuracy of the
above ‘legend’. Mr Lord’s book focused attention on an interview granted by
Junior Marconi Operator Harold Bride, who stated that – as he swam away
from the dying ship – he clearly heard the band playing ‘Autumn’.
1
(This idea
was supported in 1913 by survivor Margaret Hays, who reported that the
bandsmen performed popular selections until right before the final plunge, at
which time they played ‘that old familiar hymn, “Autumn” ’.
2
) Titanic
researchers generally followed Walter Lord’s lead and accepted Harold
Bride’s statement as being the last word on the subject, and they subsequently
dismissed the possibility that ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ was ever played by
the bandsmen that night.
This mindset reigned supreme until 1986, at which point Walter Lord
published his book The Night Lives On and discussed the possibility that
Harold Bride had been misunderstood in 1912 when he told of having heard
Titanic’s band play ‘Autumn’. Whereas it had always been assumed that
Bride was referring to the Episcopal hymn of that name, Lord suggested that
Bride had actually been referring to ‘Songe d’Automne’, a waltz by Archibald
Joyce that was popular at the time of the Titanic’s sinking. Indeed, at least one
period White Star music booklet does list ‘Songe d’Automne’ among the
musical selections that the Line’s bandsmen were prepared to play for their
passengers.
Interestingly, it seems at least possible that Joyce’s ‘Songe d’Automne’
might not have been the song that Harold Bride was referring to when he
spoke of ‘Autumn’, since it has been reported that French composer Cecile
Chaminde’s similarly-titled syncopated dance ‘Automne’ – Opus 35, Number
2 – was also a well known tune in 1912. It has also been suggested that Bride
might have been talking about W. B. Bradbury’s 1864 hymn ‘Aughton’ (also
known as ‘He Leadeth Me’) and that the newspaper reporter who recorded
Bride’s story might have misunderstood the Englishman’s pronunciation of the
hymn’s title.
3
At any rate, researchers’ attention was once again diverted from the
possibility that there might be any truth to the old legend that ‘Nearer My God
to Thee’ was played on board the Titanic. Several researchers have even
gone one step beyond Walter Lord by suggesting that, at the very end,
Titanic’s bandsmen were not playing any music at all; these researchers quote
First Class passengers Archibald Gracie’s
4 and A. H. Barkworth’s
5
observations that the Titanic’s bandsmen put their instruments down some
little time before the actual sinking – thereby inferring that all music being
played on board the ship must necessarily have ceased at that time.
In actuality, though, the above inference may not be accurate. So many
survivors reported hearing music being played just before the Titanic
foundered
6
that one wonders if the bandsmen might have stopped playing their
instruments only temporarily at the time Gracie and Barkworth made their
observations. If this was indeed the case, we must of course wonder why the
musicians would have interrupted their playing and abandoned their
instruments for a short period of time.
The answer to the above question might be as simple as this: the
bandsmen may have set their instruments aside in order to go down to their
cabins and retrieve their lifebelts. Indeed, observations made by two different
Titanic survivors lend credence to the likelihood that this was actually the
case.
The first observation pertaining to this issue was made by First Class
passenger Pierre Maréchal, who related it to Secretary Williams of the
Amalgamated Musicians’ Union. Secretary Williams later wrote:
Maréchal declared that the musicians received an order to play all the
time without stopping, so as to avoid a panic. They were placed on the
deck, that is to say, between the decks [on A Deck]. Maréchal
specially noticed that none of them had lifebelts, he being convinced
that in giving them these orders their lives were to be sacrificed to
avoid disorder on board.7
Pierre Maréchal took a seat in Boat No. 7 before it lowered at 12:40 a.m.,
and his observation that the ship’s bandsmen were not in possession of their
lifebelts at that time is straightforward. However, a separate observation was
made by Stewardess Katherine Gold shortly before she took her place in Boat
No. 11 at 1:35 a.m.,
8 by which time the situation with the bandsmen had
changed. According to Mrs Gold:
When we left the ship men were sitting on A deck, smoking cigarettes
and tapping time with their feet to the music of the band. These
passengers and the bandsmen, too, had their lifebelts beside them, and
I was specially struck by a glimpse of a violinist playing steadily with
a great lifebelt in front of him. The music was ragtime just then.
9
It seems quite possible, then, that – after retrieving their lifebelts from their
cabins – the Titanic’s musicians returned to A Deck and continued playing
their music where they had left off shortly before.
It was reported by many survivors that, soon after the collision, the
Titanic’s band sought to reassure the ship’s passengers by playing ragtime and
other cheerful music. There is no question about the truth of these reports, and
the names of a number of the tunes that were played have been preserved for
posterity. One such song was Irving Berlin’s ‘Alexander’s Ragtime Band’,
which was mentioned by at least four First Class survivors: Major Arthur
Peuchen,
10
 Lily Futrelle,
11
 Marjorie Newell
12
 and George Brereton.
13
 Another
lively song, Ayer and Brown’s ‘Oh, You Beautiful Doll’, was mentioned by
Geoffrey Marcus in his book The Maiden Voyage, but the original source of
Marcus’ information is unknown. In The Night Lives On author Walter Lord
mentions that Melville Ellis’s 1911 London hit, ‘In the Shadows’, was played
by the bandsmen, but, like Marcus, Lord did not reveal his source. In addition
to hearing ‘Alexander’s Ragtime Band’, Marjorie Newell is also said to have
heard the band play Irving Berlin’s ‘One O’clock in the Morning I Get
Lonesome’, the American folk song ‘Turkey in the Straw’, and Franz Lehár’s
‘The Merry Widow’.
14 Titanic survivors on board the Carpathia told First
Class passenger John Snyder that they heard the Titanic’s bandsmen playing
the old sentimental favorite, ‘Home, Sweet Home’.
15 Last but not least,
Richard O’Connor, in his 1956 book Down to Eternity, mentions that ‘The
Londonderry Air’ was played that night, although – again – O’Connor’s
source of information is unknown.
16
Saloon Steward Edward Wheelton recalled the bandsmen playing
‘selections from the opera and the latest popular melodies of England and
America’,
17 but he did not specify the titles of these musical pieces. We know
that the band played at least one waltz during the sinking (in later years
Second Class passenger Edwina Troutt could even hum the melody), but the
title of this waltz must remain forever unknown.
Despite the playing of these popular tunes, though, it has always seemed
unlikely to the present author that the Titanic’s band continued to play
lighthearted music right up until the time the ship foundered. Indeed, there
would have been little need for ragtime and other cheerful music during the
final half-hour before the sinking; most of the boats were gone by then, and the
peril would have been obvious to those people who remained on board the
ship. Instead of attempting to lull the passengers’ fears with gay tunes at that
point, it seems more likely that the bandsmen would have used their music to
instill courage in those individuals who needed it.
Some people found that patriotism added steel to their backbones; indeed,
Captain Smith is reported to have appealed to his crew to ‘Be British!’ It
appears that the bandsmen were thinking along similar lines, because from
Boat No. 5 First Class passenger George Harder plainly heard the strains of
‘The Star Spangled Banner’ drifting over the water.
18 Other survivors told
Carpathia passengers Reverend Henry Burke and Reverend Daniel McCarthy
about hearing this same song as well as other patriotic music.
19
In this same
vein, Edwina Troutt wrote to a friend right after the disaster and told about
having heard the bandsmen playing ‘The Land of Hope’ (one of Elgar’s Pomp
and Circumstance Marches which the British public adopted as an anthem
called ‘The Land of Hope and Glory’.)20
Instead of relying solely on patriotism, though, some people looked to
their religion as a source of inspiration and courage in the face of what was
about to happen. The bandsmen knew this, and their choice of music seems to
have reflected that knowledge. Interestingly, a male passenger who was
picked up from the sea after the sinking told survivor Bertha Watt that the
Reverend Ernest Carter and his wife (both of whom were lost) suggested to
the bandsmen that it might be appropriate if they played a hymn.
21 The
possibility therefore exists that, during the final half-hour before the vessel
sank, the bandsmen chose to forego their repertoire of popular and patriotic
music and concentrate instead on playing inspiring hymns to instill courage in
those people who might derive benefit from them.
This of course raises a crucial question: are Titanic researchers really
justified in dismissing the ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ story as mere legend?
The present author doesn’t think so; indeed, in recent years more than one
long-discredited ‘legend’ about the Titanic disaster has been shown to have a
basis in fact (e.g. the so-called ‘legend’ of a man who donned woman’s
clothing in order to get into a lifeboat).
22 That being the case, perhaps it will
be worthwhile for us to re-examine the evidence pertaining to the hymns that
are reported to have been played by the Titanic’s bandsmen while the vessel
was sinking.
First Class passenger Emma Schabert said that, after playing ragtime for a
while, the band began playing religious music. ‘When we Meet Beyond’ was
one of the first hymns they chose, followed by others.
23 First Class passenger
Dr Washington Dodge reported from Boat No. 13 that he heard the band play
‘Lead, Kindly Light’.
24 While Boat No. 14 was being lowered at about 1:25
a.m., survivor Edith Brown reported that the band was playing an unnamed
hymn.
25 A group of Titanic crewmen reported hearing the band play ‘Abide
With Me’ and ‘Eternal Father, Strong To Save’, as well as other hymns. And
finally, we have Junior Marconi Operator Harold Bride’s previously
mentioned account of ‘Autumn’ being played while he struggled in the water.
As has been already discussed, author Walter Lord gave special emphasis
to Harold Bride’s ‘Autumn’ story, explaining that Bride’s account ‘somehow
stands out’ from many other conflicting stories. That is true (as far as it goes),
but – over the years – later writers and researchers have become rigid in their
thinking about ‘Autumn’ (or ‘Songe d’Automne’), maintaining that this was
undoubtedly the last song played on the Titanic and that the ‘Nearer My God
to Thee’ story is only a myth concocted by sensation-hungry newspaper
reporters. Indeed, this notion seems to have become ‘truer’ with each
repetition until it is now accepted as absolute fact.
It is true that many questionable stories about the Titanic disaster were
concocted by reporters in the days immediately following the disaster. It is
also clear, however, that many of these so-called ‘questionable’ stories were
not invented by reporters at all, but originated instead with actual Titanic
survivors who discussed their experiences while they were still on board the
Carpathia. The ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ story is one of these, since
Reverend Burke and Reverend McCarthy, both Carpathia passengers, were
told about the hymn by survivors while the rescue ship was still at sea.
It seems clear that, besides ragtime and patriotic music, a considerable
number of hymns were played by the Titanic’s bandsmen during the latter
stages of the sinking. Nobody knows the names of all the hymns that were
played, the order they were played in, or which was the final hymn that was
selected by bandmaster Wallace Hartley that night. Many survivors claimed to
have heard ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ played before the ship foundered;
indeed, Edwina Troutt mentioned having heard that hymn when she wrote a
letter to a friend mere days after the sinking.
26 Saloon Steward Edward
Wheelton agreed with Miss Troutt, telling a reporter that – before the final
plunge – the bandsmen changed the cheerful character of their musical
program and played the hymn ‘Nearer My God to Thee’.
27 Another Saloon
Steward, Jacob Gibbons, was adamant that this was indeed the case.
According to Gibbons:
The cries of those on board were terrible, and I doubt whether the
memory of them will ever leave me during my lifetime. It has been
denied by many that the band was playing, but it was doing so and the
strains of ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ came clearly over the water with
a solemnity so awful that words cannot express it.
28
In light of the information we have just examined, is there any further evidence
to suggest that the above hymn might have been played on board the Titanic
that night? The present author believes there is. Elwand Moody, a well-known
Leeds musician, was a close friend of Wallace Hartley and had just completed
twenty-two Atlantic crossings with him on the Mauretania. In fact, Hartley
had asked Moody to accompany him on the Titanic, but Moody had declined.
Not long before the Titanic’s maiden voyage, Moody asked Hartley,
‘What would you do if you were ever on a ship that was sinking?’ Hartley
looked thoughtful for a moment and replied:
I don’t think I could do better than play ‘O God, Our Help In Ages
Past’ or ‘Nearer My God to Thee’.
29
Later, after the disaster, Moody said, ‘When I read the statement in the papers
that he had gone to his death leading the band in ‘Nearer My God to Thee,’ I
believed it. If it had been some other hymn I might not have done so, but as it
is I can quite believe it. It is just what he would do.’
Lewis Cross, bass viol player on the Celtic, was another friend of
Wallace Hartley who once spoke with him about the possibility of a
shipwreck. Hartley smiled and said:
Well, I don’t suppose it will ever happen, but you know music is a
bigger weapon than a gun in a big emergency, and I think that a band
could do more to calm passengers than all the officers.
30
The present author believes that Wallace Hartley proved his point on the night
the Titanic went down. I do not know if ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ was the
final hymn played by the Titanic’s band, but I believe the evidence shows that
the hymn was played that night.
* * * * *
Note: The authors of this book agree with George Behe’s assessment that
‘Nearer My God to Thee’ was likely played the night Titanic sank, but that it
cannot be proven that it was the last song played. The story that ‘Nearer My
God to Thee’ was played was circulating onboard the Carpathia before the
ship reached New York, proving the story did not originate in the yellow
press.
Complicating matters, ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ can be set to three
different melodies, and is often played differently on both sides of the
Atlantic. In his book The Night Lives On, Walter Lord speculated that since
American and British survivors alike claim that this hymn was played, that
‘more than half of those who remembered the hymn must have been mistaken’.
This was in fact a misunderstanding on Lord’s part. Not every melody that
‘Nearer My God to Thee’ is set to is exclusive to one side of the Atlantic, as
Lord suggested. For instance, the American version of the hymn, which is set
to the melody of ‘Bethany’, is the only version that is played in Scandinavia.
As such, it is possible that many Europeans would have been familiar with the
American version of ‘Nearer My God to Thee’, and vice versa.
Additionally, besides Elwand Moody’s story that Wallace Hartley said he
would play ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ if he was on a sinking ship, there is
additional evidence that Titanic’s bandmaster had a special affinity for this
hymn: Hartley, a Methodist, attended services with his family at Bethel
Independent Methodist Chapel, where his father Albion was the choirmaster
and Sunday School Superintendent. Hartley himself is said to have introduced
‘Nearer My God to Thee’ to the congregation.
31
If Hartley did indeed choose to play this hymn during the sinking, it seems
possible that he could have picked the version set to ‘Propior Deo’, preferred
by Methodists, and allegedly Hartley’s favorite version of the hymn.
32
It is
also possible that they could have played the version of the hymn set to
‘Horbury’, which was traditionally played by Episcopalians. Church services
on Atlantic liners tended to be styled after the Church of England, and this
version of the hymn would have been familiar to many aboard. However, it
has to be noted that the White Star songbook says that the bandsmen were
prepared to play ‘hymns of all nations’, so the band would have been equally
capable of playing ‘Bethany’, as well as the other two versions of the hymn.
The sheer volume of claims that ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ was played
highly suggests that there is at least a kernel of truth to the stories, as it is hard
to envision all of the literally dozens of witnesses being wrong, or having
fabricated the stories. The proof is not conclusive, but is strongly suggestive.
Additionally, the present authors believe that there is the strong possibility
that both ‘Autumn’, (whether it be the hymn by this name or Joyce’s ‘Songe
d’Automne’) and ‘Nearer My God to Thee’ were indeed played that night,
regardless of the order. Second Class passenger Susan Webber said that the
band was still playing ‘on the bridge’ near the end, and that across the waters,
she heard the strains of ‘Autumn’.
33 First Class passenger Helen Candee, in
her account of the sinking, raises the possibility that both of these songs were
indeed played by the band during the sinking:
And over them trembled the last strains of the orchestra’s message:
‘Autumn’ first, then ‘Nearer, my God, to Thee’.
34
Appendix K: Shots in the Dark: Did an Officer Commit Suicide on the
Titanic?
1
Even as the rescue ship Carpathia was heading towards New York Harbor,
rumors were circulating on board that an officer had shot himself as Titanic
sank. These rumors first began appearing in the newspapers as early as April
18, 1912, the day the Carpathia arrived in New York.
Carlos Hurd, one of the Carpathia’s passengers, just happened to be a
reporter for the St. Louis Post Dispatch. Captain Rostron attempted to protect
the privacy of the survivors by preventing communication between them and
Hurd or his wife. Despite this, Hurd managed to obtain several dozen
interviews. As the Carpathia entered New York Harbor, he wrapped up the
notes from his interviews in a makeshift waterproof package and threw it
down to a boat that came alongside the ship. Parts of the notes, which
included mention of the rumors of an officer suicide, were rushed to the office
of the New York Morning World, where they were published that same day.
Revolver shots heard shortly before the Titanic went down caused
many rumors, one that Captain Smith had shot himself, another that
First Officer Murdoch had ended his life, but members of the crew
discredit these rumors.
2
By the time the following day’s New York Times was published, additional
reports were circulating. These included stories to the effect that an officer
had shot two men who attempted to rush a lifeboat, before turning the gun on
himself. James Cameron’s Titanic portrayed First Officer Murdoch
committing suicide after attempting to launch Collapsible A from the Boat
Deck. Though little mentioned, the CBS miniseries Titanic (1996) also
showed Murdoch shooting himself. But, what did the survivors themselves
actually see and say about a suicide? This appendix is an attempt to bring
together and analyze the accounts and information relating to this subject in a
comprehensive manner.
During the course of our research, quite a few accounts were found that
referred to shots being fired during the lifeboat loading. Given the purpose of
this appendix, we have not included many of the accounts which do not
specifically refer to an officer shooting himself, or to other events surrounding
an alleged officer suicide. Other incidents of gunfire during the sinking are
discussed in Appendix H. We have also chosen not to include accounts of
survivors who were in the general vicinity of alleged shooting incidents, but
who gave no specific information that would confirm or refute the allegation
that a shooting/suicide occurred, since non-statements add little to the case
either way. The spelling in the survivor accounts is kept as it appeared in
original documents.
Primary Accounts of an Officer’s Suicide
The following primary accounts are taken from survivors’ own letters,
diaries, and private narratives, or their testimony at the Senate or British
Inquiries, or at the Limitation of Liability Hearings of 1912–1915. In these
cases, there is very little doubt that the survivors really said what they are
quoted as saying, unlike press accounts of the day. Since many survivors gave
multiple accounts of the same incident, some secondary accounts may be
mixed in with the primary, in an effort to keep a person’s statements together.
Third Class passenger Eugene Daly: Eugene Daly was rescued from the
upturned Collapsible B. He was brought aboard the Carpathia unconscious,
and was carried to the cabin of Dr Frank Blackmarr. Upon awakening, Daly
related his experiences. As he spoke, Blackmarr wrote down Daly’s story in
his personal scrapbook. Daly said:
After the accident we were all held down in steerage. Finally, some of
the women and children were let up, but we had quite a number of hotheaded Italians and other peoples who got crazy and made for the
stairs. These men tried to rush the stairway, pushing and crowding and
pulling the women down. ... I saw two dagos shot and some that took
punishment from the officers ... I finally got up to the top deck and
made for the front. The water was just covering the upper deck at the
bridge and it was easy to slide because she had such a tip.3
Daly then goes on to describe his help in cutting the ropes on a collapsible
boat that was crowded with people hanging from its edges. The ship plunged
suddenly, water reached their hips, and then the ship rose again slightly. They
cut the collapsible free, and then ended up in the water. Due to Blackmarr’s
notes, which recorded Daly’s emotional dumping of the events he experienced
(Daly broke down crying several times during the recollections), it is unclear
if the shooting he refers to occurred below or up on deck. Blackmarr’s notes
also do not include mention of an officer suicide. However, a later interview
with Dr Blackmarr makes it clear that Daly had indeed told him about this,
and that the shooting incident referred to above, and the suicide, were one in
the same:
The only panic at the beginning, as I understand it, was in the steerage,
where there were many persons who lacked self-control. There was
no shooting, as I learn, except that a steerage passenger told me he
saw an officer trying to control the maddened rush by shooting two
persons. The same officer shot himself a minute later.
4
Daly later wrote a letter to his younger sister in Ireland describing his
experiences. The letter is undated, but was apparently written sometime
between April 18 and April 21, 1912. This letter was later published in
several British newspapers:
We afterwards went to the second cabin deck … and the two girls and
myself got into a boat. An officer called on me to go back, but I would
not stir. They then got hold of me and pulled me out.
At the first cabin when a boat was being lowered an officer pointed
a revolver and said if any man tried to get in, he would shoot him on
the spot. I saw the officer shoot two men dead because they tried to get
in the boat. Afterwards there was another shot, and I saw the officer
himself lying on the deck. They told me he shot himself, but I did not
see him. I was up to my knees in the water at the time. Everyone was
rushing around, and there were no more boats. I then dived
overboard.5
This version is apparently an abridged version of Daly’s letter to his sister. A
more complete version of this letter was published in another paper, a reprint
of the New York Herald:
We went to the deck, but there were no boats going off. Then we went
to the second cabin deck. A boat was being lowered there. It was
being filled with women. Maggie and Bertha got in, and I got in. The
officer called on me to go back, but I got in. Life was sweet to me and
I wanted to save myself. They told me to get out, but I didn’t stir. Then
they got hold of me and pulled me out. Then the boat was lowered and
went off.
There was another boat there, but I went to the first cabin. The
steerage people and second cabin people went to the first cabin of the
ship. They were getting women into the boats there. There was a
terrible crowd standing about. The officer in charge pointed a
revolver and waved his hand and said that if any man tried to get in he
would shoot him on the spot. Two men tried to break through and he
shot them both. I saw him shoot them. I saw them lying there after they
were shot. One seemed to be dead. The other was trying to pull
himself up at the side of the deck, but he could not. I tried to get to the
boat also, but was afraid I would be shot and stayed back. Afterwards
there was another shot and I saw the officer himself lying on the deck.
They told me he shot himself, but I did not see him.
Then I rushed across the deck, and there was a sort of canvas craft
there. I tried with six or seven men to get it out, but we could not. It
was stuck under a wire stay which ran up to the mast. The water was
then washing across the deck. The ship lurched and the water washed
the canvas craft off the deck into the ocean. I was up to my knees in
water at the time. Everyone was rushing around, but there were no
boats. Then I dived overboard.6
Daly repeated this story at the home of Mayor Gaynor of New York when he
visited to ask for assistance from the Mayor’s Relief Fund.7 Daly filed a
claim for lost property and personal injury in 1913 as part of the Limitation of
Liability hearings, then testified in front of Judge Julius M. Meyer in the
United States District Court on June 25, 1915. He stated under oath that he had
seen two men shot.
8
Daly also told his family and daughter Mary about this incident numerous
times over the years:
… [The] ship’s officer in charge of overseeing the boats held him
back at gunpoint. My dad retreated, afraid of being shot, but other men
rushed forward. The ship’s officer shot down two of them right before
my father’s eyes. There was utter confusion. Then my dad heard
another shot ring out, and he couldn’t see what was happening, but he
was told by the people around him, that the officer who had shot the
two men a few minutes before, had put the gun to his own head, and
shot himself. I’m sure he did it in despair for what he had to do. My
dad later saw his body on the deck, it was a terrible night.
9
In several of Daly’s accounts, it is difficult to determine the timing of the
shooting incident he described. His account to Dr Blackmarr makes it unclear
as to whether the shooting occurred above or below decks, although his later
accounts make it clear that it was above deck. The abridged version of the
letter to his sister suggests the shooting happened during the attempted launch
of Collapsible A, since Daly said that he was up to his knees in water at the
time. While writing The Night Lives On, Walter Lord noticed this detail and
how it matched Saloon Steward Edward Brown’s description of water
reaching his legs during the attempted launch of Collapsible A. For this
reason, he speculated that the incident may have happened at that boat.
However, the unabridged version of Daly’s letter reveals more specific
details. It indicates that the shooting did not happen as the water was rushing
across the deck, which is the impression given by the abridged version of
Daly’s letter, but rather sometime as a boat was lowering, prior to both the
attempted launch of Collapsible A, and prior to water reaching the deck.
In the full letter, Daly stated that he, Maggie Daly, Bertha Mulvihill, all
got into a lifeboat at the ‘second cabin deck’. He was thrown out, with the
boat being lowered afterwards. He said that there was another boat nearby,
but that he went to the ‘first cabin’ instead. It can be established that Daly’s
cousin and Bertha Mulvihill left in Boat No. 15. In Mulvihill’s own accounts,
she stated that only two boats were left, and that the boat she boarded was the
last boat.
10
In another account, Daly said the boat he was thrown out of was
‘the last boat’.
11 Boats No. 13 and No. 15 began lowering within 30 seconds
of each other, with No. 15 leaving last.
12
Daly appears to have referred to A Deck as the ‘second cabin’. The
loading of No. 13 and No. 15 largely took place from A Deck. It can also be
established that there was a slight rush at No. 15, with the men being told to
stand back, matching Daly’s claim.
13 Finally, in his account to Dr Blackmarr,
Daly said that he had to climb up a set of falls to the top deck, because ‘the
stairs were so crowded that I could not get through’, strongly suggesting that
he had been on A Deck.
14
Daly’s account to Dr Blackmarr states that after he reached the top deck,
he ‘made for the front’. In his letter to his sister, Daly stated that the Steerage
and Second Class passengers went there, that they were loading women into
the boats, and that there was a ‘terrible crowd standing about’. It was at this
time that the officer warned the men, and then shot two who attempted to
break through and board the boat. One of these men was still alive, ‘trying to
pull himself up at the side of the deck’. This description fits the areas forward
where Boat No. 1 and Collapsible C were launched on the starboard side, and
Boat No. 2 and Collapsible D on the port side. There was a solid bulwark at
the edge of the deck, which may be what the wounded man was trying to pull
himself up on. The boats listed above could only be boarded by climbing over
these solid bulwarks just aft of the Bridge. There were no railings anywhere
else on the edge of the Boat Deck that were also in the vicinity of lifeboats.
After the shooting and suicide, Daly stated that he ‘rushed across the
deck’, and that there was ‘a sort of canvas craft there’. He describes the
efforts to get this boat launched, and said it was stuck under a wire stay. Daly
told Dr Frank Blackmarr that passengers clung to the edges of this collapsible
as they were working on it, and that they had to cut ropes to free it as water
reached the deck where he was located. In the full version of his letter to his
sister, he also says the water reached the deck while they were trying to free
the collapsible. These details match Collapsible A and that boat only.
Collapsible B was never hooked up to the falls, and did not have people
hanging on its edges as it was being freed.
Complicating matters is the fact that Daly believed that he helped free the
same boat he was later saved on, Collapsible B. However, he was unaware of
how the boat he was rescued on came to be upside down; if he had, indeed,
worked at Collapsible B, he would certainly have known this, since it fell to
the Boat Deck upside down as the men tried to free it. No wire stays
prevented Collapsible B from being pushed off the roof of the Officers’
Quarters. However, these details do match Collapsible A. There was a wire
funnel stay directly inboard of the aft davit which launched Boat No. 1 and
Collapsible C, and which had then been cranked back in for Boat A. This,
coupled with having to push the collapsible uphill against the port list, and the
bow of it around the structure surrounding the stairway down to A Deck,
would have impeded the efforts to launch it. Daly was likely confused since
Collapsible B ended up on the starboard side of the forward funnel as Titanic
sank, but it is clear that his ‘canvas craft’ was indeed Collapsible A.
The identity of which boat Daly was saying the shooting occurred at
would seem to hinge on what he meant by ‘rushed across the deck’ after the
shooting. If he meant literally from one side of the ship to the other after the
shooting, then that may mean the incident occurred at Collapsible D on the
port side. On the other hand, if he meant that he rushed from the edge of the
Boat Deck, where the mystery boat was loading, to nearer the deck house on
the same side of the ship, then he may have been referring to gunfire at
Collapsible C. In any event, it appears as if Daly’s shooting occurred
forward, and sometime during the launch/attempted launches of the forward
collapsible boats, and fairly close to the end. The evidence Daly gave may
allow for the possibility, however, that this shooting took place shortly before
the attempted launch of Collapsible A, which has been the previously
accepted timing of this incident.
While the location of the events Daly witnessed appears to be in question,
the credibility of him as a witness appears impeccable. Whatever the truth,
there is no doubt that he was absolutely convinced of what he had seen. He
mentioned it to a Carpathia passenger, to his sister in a letter home, to the
Mayor of New York, under oath in a court of law, and to his family.
First Class passenger Laura Francatelli: Miss Francatelli, Lady Duff
Gordon’s secretary, was rescued in Boat No. 1. She wrote a private letter to
someone named ‘Marion’ on April 18, 1912, which describes a suicide:
The dear brave officer gave orders to row away from the sinking boat
at least 200 yards, he afterwards poor dear brave fellow, shot himself.
We saw the whole thing, and watched that tremendous thing quickly
sink...
15
The wording of Miss Francatelli’s letter makes it difficult to tell whether she
was referring to the officer shooting himself, or to the ship sinking when she
said that she ‘saw the whole thing’. If she was referring to the suicide, it is
difficult to tell how clearly she could have seen events unfolding on a sinking
ship at night from a lifeboat.
If Francatelli was referring to the same event that Eugene Daly claimed to
have witnessed, then it is possible, however unlikely, that she could have seen
events unfolding on the Boat Deck from hundreds of feet away. The forward
portion of the Boat Deck would have been nearly level with the water and on
a straight line of sight with Miss Francatelli at the time, and No. 1 did not row
far away from the starboard side of the ship. If Miss Francatelli was not
referring to the suicide when she said that she ‘saw the whole thing’, then she
may have just been repeating something that she heard from someone else.
In any event, since her description was written on April 18, 1912, the day
Carpathia reached New York, it seems to support the fact that suicide rumors
were circulating onboard the rescue ship before the arrival, rather than
originating afterwards in the yellow press.
First Class passenger George Rheims: George Rheims was rescued aboard
the swamped Collapsible A. He wrote a private letter to his wife in France on
April 19, 1912 which describes the following incident:
While the last boat was leaving, I saw an officer with a revolver fire a
shot and kill a man who was trying to climb into it. As there remained
nothing more to do, the officer told us, ‘Gentlemen, each man for
himself, good-bye.’ He gave a military salute and then fired a bullet
into his head. That’s what I call a man!
16
On the same day that he wrote the letter to his wife, Rheims was interviewed
by a reporter from the New York Herald. Published the following day, this
account confirms the details in the letter to his wife:
The majority of men passengers did not attempt to get in the boats. The
men assisted the women. But when the boats began to be lowered
some men lost their heads. From the lower deck men jumped into
crowded boats and others slid down ropes. One officer shot a man
who attempted to get into a crowded boat. Immediately afterward the
officer said:-‘Well, goodby [sic],’ and killed himself.
17
With the exception of Rheims belief that one man was shot while Daly
believed two were shot, the accounts given by Rheims are strikingly similar
to those given by Daly. So similar, in fact, that it is reasonable to assume that
they had witnessed the same incident. The timing of the alleged suicide is not
as easy to deduce from Rheims’ accounts as it is from Daly’s. However,
Rheims’ letter seems to indicate that the shooting happened as a boat was
being lowered away, which Collapsible A never was, unless he meant
‘loading’ when he said ‘lowering’.
Like Daly’s account, this may support the conclusion that the shooting, if it
occurred, happened at either Collapsible C or D, the last two boats lowered
away. In his letter, Rheims says that after the shooting, he had time to briefly
converse with his brother-in-law, go down to his cabin for ‘one minute’ to
retrieve a photograph, and come back on deck and undress, before the ship
began ‘nosediving’ – a reference to the Boat Deck submerging at 2:15 a.m. He
and his brother-in-law then bid farewell, and Rheims leapt overboard.
Rheims was berthed in cabin A-21 on the starboard side of A Deck, just
below the Boat Deck. It would not have taken him long to get to his cabin and
then return to the Boat Deck. Rheims indicates that he jumped overboard on
the starboard side near the Gymnasium.
18 As such, it appears that the events
he described in the latter-stages of the sinking took place on the starboard
side.
Rheims also filed a deposition in the Limitation of Liability hearings.
Unfortunately, in it, he did not mention the suicide, nor was he asked about it.
In fact, the only reference to gunfire came when he was asked generally: ‘Did
you hear any particular noises?’ Rheims replied that he heard ‘two pistol
shots’. When asked how long that was before the ship sank, he said: ‘About
40 minutes before she sank.’19
Some have expressed the opinion that because Rheims did not mention the
shooting and suicide at the hearings, he must have made the whole thing up.
Others say that since he heard gunshots early in the sinking, Rheims must have
heard Fifth Officer Lowe’s warning shots at No. 14, and either mistook, or
guessed, what really happened.
However, several things run counter to this logic. First, in the hearings,
Rheims was never asked whether he saw what happened when he heard the
gunshots, and in fact, no follow-up questions of any kind about the gunfire
were asked. Whether or not there were any shootings was beyond the scope of
the hearings, the sole purpose of which were to determine whether White Star
Line was legally liable in the sinking, and how much compensation for the
survivors and families they were responsible for. The purpose of the hearings
was not to root out the truth on unrelated issues for the historical record.
Second, the critics are assuming that the gunfire Rheims reported hearing
‘40 minutes’ before the ship sank were one and the same with the shooting and
suicide he claimed to have witnessed elsewhere. Rheims outlined the events
of the suicide in great detail in the private letter to his wife; that letter was not
seen publicly until 1981. In writing this letter, there was no apparent motive to
lie, or to do anything other than tell the truth as he knew it. Rheims also
repeated the same story to a reporter on the day he wrote the letter to his wife.
In both instances, Rheims states that he saw the incident first-hand. In the
letter to his wife, it is plain that the timing of the shooting he witnessed was
very shortly before Rheims leapt overboard, and not forty minutes before the
end. It also seems improbable that Rheims would have described an incident
so closely matching the description given by Daly, whether he actually
witnessed it or not, when there is no evidence the men ever met to compare
notes on their experiences. This is particularly true since First and Third
Class passengers were kept segregated, even onboard Carpathia.
Rheims appears to be a reliable witness, with no motive or reason for
lying. The fact that he did not mention the incident in the Limitation of
Liability deposition cannot, and should not, be construed as proof that it did
not happen, particularly in light of his other accounts of the sinking which
describe the incident. After all, there are other details of Rheims’ ordeal, both
during and following the sinking, that he relayed in the letter to his wife which
were not brought up in the Limitation of Liability hearings. Few would make
the argument that those details were made up simply because he did not
mention them in the hearings. However, that standard is often applied when
researchers examine the gunfire issue, simply because it is a controversial
point; most have a preconceived notion about whether it happened or not,
rather than letting the evidence guide their conclusions.
First Class passenger Richard Norris Williams: R. N. Williams and his
father were on the forward starboard Boat Deck as the Bridge dipped under.
Swept into the water, Williams’ father was crushed by the falling forward
funnel. Williams survived by reaching Collapsible A. He wrote a personal
account of his experiences during the sinking for his family; it was later
published. He described the following events as transpiring immediately after
seeing Captain Smith near the Bridge with a seaman. The seaman went off on
an errand. Williams and his father heard a curious noise and turned to see
water pouring over the Bridge rail. They immediately began heading aft:
I heard the crack of a revolver shot from the direction where I had left
Captain Smith. I did not look around. ... The ship seemed to give a
slight lurch. I turned towards the bow. I saw nothing but water with
just a mast sticking out of it. I don’t remember the shock of the cold
water, I only remember thinking, ‘suction,’ and my efforts to swim in
the direction of the starboard rail to get away from the ship...20
In a letter to one of the present authors, Quincy Norris Williams, the son of
Richard Norris Williams, confirmed that his father talked about hearing
gunfire near the Bridge as water began reaching their location. When asked if
his father had ever elaborated on this incident, his son said no. He said that
his father was not the sort to speculate about things that might have happened,
but that he did not see personally. He heard gunfire, but just as he said in his
private account, Williams and his father did not turn around to see what had
happened. They were too busy heading aft to escape the approaching water.
Williams’ account supports that there was indeed gunfire on the forward
starboard side of the ship, shortly before the Boat Deck submerged. If such an
incident occurred, he was in a position to see or hear it, and that is exactly
what he reported.
Primary Accounts, No Officer Suicide
The following section details the first-hand accounts of those who specifically
state or give evidence that an officer suicide did not occur.
Junior Marconi Operator Harold Bride: Harold Bride survived by clinging
to the upturned Collapsible B. He was on the port side of the ship when the
bow plunged under. His accounts lend some insight into the fate of Captain
Smith.
I now assisted in pushing off a collapsible lifeboat, which was on the
port side of the forward funnel, onto the boat deck. Just as the boat fell
I noticed Capt. Smith dive from the bridge into the sea. Then followed
a general scramble down on the boat deck, but no sooner had we got
there than the sea washed over. I managed to catch hold of the boat we
had previously fixed up and was swept overboard with her.
21
Bride repeated this claim in his famous New York Times account.
22
If Bride
really saw Captain Smith jump into the sea at the last moment, then it would
seem to eliminate the possibility of him having committed suicide.
23
First Class passenger Colonel Archibald Gracie: Colonel Gracie and his
friend, Clinch Smith, helped to get Collapsible A down from the roof of the
Officers’ Quarters, then headed aft as water began reaching the Boat Deck. He
was rescued aboard Collapsible B. In his book, Gracie specifically addresses
the rumors of an officer committing suicide:
Did either the Captain or the First Officer shoot himself? Not
withstanding all the current rumors and newspaper statements
answering this question affirmatively, I have been unable to find any
passenger or member of the crew cited as authority for the statement
that either Captain Smith or First Officer Murdoch did anything of the
sort. On the contrary, so far as relates to Captain Smith, there are
several witnesses, including Harold S. Bride, the Junior Marconi
operator, who saw him at the last on the bridge of his ship, and later,
when sinking and struggling in the water. Neither can I discover any
authentic testimony about First Officer Murdoch’s shooting himself.
On the contrary, I find fully sufficient evidence that he did not. He was
a brave and efficient officer and no sufficient motive for selfdestruction can be advanced. He performed his full duty under
difficult circumstances, and was entitled to praise and honor. During
the last fifteen minutes before the ship sank, I was located at that
quarter forward on the boat deck, starboard side, where Murdoch was
in command and where the crew under him were engaged in the vain
attempt of launching the Engelhard boat. The report of a pistol shot
during this interval ringing in my ears within a few feet of me would
certainly have attracted my attention, and later, when I moved astern,
the distance was not so great as to prevent my hearing it.
24
Gracie was in the appropriate area of the ship to see or hear gunfire if the
alleged incident occurred at Collapsible A, and was adamant that he heard
nothing of the sort. Earlier, however, Gracie had led two First Class
passengers – Caroline Brown and Edith Evans – towards Collapsible D on
the port side. There he encountered a cordon of crewmembers with linked
arms, all trying to prevent men from rushing the boat, and he was forced to
leave the ladies.
25 Gracie testified that Lightoller told him that Steerage
passengers had tried to rush Collapsible D, and that he had to fire off shots to
make them get out. Gracie said that he did not hear this gunfire.
26
Gracie also did not mention hearing shots fired at Collapsible C. Yet First
Class passengers Hugh Woolner, Mauritz Håkan Björnström-Steffansson and
Jack Thayer, as well as Third Class passengers Emily and Frank Goldsmith,
among others, all said that they saw warning shots fired to keep passengers
from rushing that boat.
27
If Gracie did not mention, or claimed not to have heard, the warning shots
we know were fired during the loading of Collapsibles C and D, then we must
ask: Could he have missed additional gunshots if the suicide incident occurred
at either of these boats as they lowered away, or later at Collapsible A?
Gracie argued that this could not be the case. However, if shots were indeed
fired at Collapsible A, then it is possible that he was unaware of them. First,
Gracie had gotten as far aft as the cul-de-sac where the Officers’ Quarters
intersected the First Class Entrance, and was just forward of the railing
separating the crew deck space from the forward First Class Promenade when
he was struck by the wave. That distance, when combined with the noise from
the crowd of steerage passengers then surrounding him, could have muffled
such gunshots, or prevented them from registering in his mind.28
 However, this
does not explain how he did not hear shots fired at Collapsible C and D
earlier.
Complicating matters is the fact that at the time of the incident, Colonel
Gracie did not know the identity of the officer who he saw on the scene, and
thus could not say for certain who he saw and when. This is confirmed by the
following passage from his book:
My friend, Clinch Smith, urged immediate obedience to Lightoller’s
orders, and, with other men passengers, we crossed over to the
starboard quarter of the ship, forward on the same Boat Deck where,
as I afterwards learned, the officer in command was First Officer
Murdoch who had also done noble work, and was soon thereafter to
lose his life.
29
Lamp Trimmer Samuel Hemming stated that Sixth Officer Moody was also on
the scene, helping to get Collapsible A off the roof of the Officers’ Quarters.
30
In his own testimony, Gracie admitted that Second Officer Lightoller had later
told him that Murdoch was working near his location, which is why the
Colonel believed the officer he saw working was Murdoch.
31 Gracie and
Lightoller had lengthy conversations about the sinking aboard the Carpathia.
Second Officer Charles Lightoller: Lightoller survived by reaching
Collapsible B after leaping overboard from the roof of the Bridge. Lightoller
had helped get Collapsible B down from the roof of the Officers’ Quarters
and then crossed over to the starboard side to see if he could be of any help
there. From that location, Lightoller would have been in a perfect position to
see what was happening near Collapsible A, and to comment on the fate of the
officers working there. In both the Senate and British Inquiries, Lightoller
mentioned seeing First Officer Murdoch working on the falls. He did not
mention seeing Chief Officer Wilde, or Sixth Officer Moody. In response to
rumors in the press, Lightoller wrote a letter to Murdoch’s widow Ada that
refuted the stories about him committing suicide. The letter was signed by all
of the Titanic’s surviving officers:
Hotel Continental,
Washington.
April 24th, 1912.
Dear Mrs. Murdoch,
I am writing on behalf of the surviving officers to express our deep
sympathy in this, your awful loss. Words cannot convey our feelings, –
much less a letter.
I deeply regret that I missed communicating with you by last mail to
refute the reports that were spread in the newspapers. I was
practically the last man, and certainly the last officer, to see Mr.
Murdoch. He was then endeavouring to launch the starboard forward
collapsible boat. I had already got mine from off the top of our
quarters. You will understand when I say that I was working the port
side of the ship, and Mr. Murdoch was principally engaged on the
starboard side of the ship, filling and launching the boats. Having got
my boat down off the top of the house, and there being no time to open
it, I left it and ran across to the starboard side, still on top of the
quarters. I was then practically looking down on your husband and his
men. He was working hard, personally assisting, overhauling the
forward boat’s fall. At this moment the ship dived, and we were all in
the water. Other reports as to the ending are absolutely false. Mr.
Murdoch died like a man, doing his duty. Call on us without hesitation
for anything we can do for you.
Yours very sincerely,
(Signed)
C.H. Lightoller, 2d Officer;
J. Grove Boxhall, 4th Officer;
H.J. Pitman, 3d Officer;
H.G. Lowe, 5th Officer.
32
If Lightoller’s account is accurate, then it seems to eliminate the possibility
that Murdoch could have been the officer who shot himself, if anyone did; it
would also eliminate the possibility that a shooting happened at Collapsible
A. However, more recent information that has been uncovered suggests that
Lightoller might not have been telling the whole story.
During her research into the disaster, author Diana Bristow came into
contact with James O. McGiffin, son of Captain James McGiffin. Captain
McGiffin was the Marine Superintendent of the White Star Line in
Queenstown, and a close friend of First Officer Murdoch. He served with
both Murdoch and Lightoller on the SS Medic. McGiffin said that when
Lightoller saw his father, he told him all about the disaster. He told Captain
McGiffin that Murdoch had been forced to shoot a crewman who was leading
a rush on a lifeboat, and who had tried to push ahead of women and children.
He stated that the bullet struck the man’s jaw.
33 This account is very similar to
a story that was circulating in 1912:
‘Stand back,’ shouted the officers who were manning the boat. ‘The
women come first,’ ... men continued their pushing and shoving ...
Shots rang out. One big fellow fell over the railing into the water.
Another dropped to the deck, moaning. His jaw had been shot away.
This was the story told by bystanders afterwards on the pier.
34
The information provided by James O. McGiffin is tantalizing, and the
similarity to the above 1912 story and Daly’s account of one of the victims
still being alive after being shot is apparent. However, more information is
needed before any real conclusions are drawn. If this report is accurate, then
it suggests that Lightoller may not have told the whole story, perhaps in order
to console his friend’s grieving widow. If Lightoller’s letter to Ada Murdoch
is accurate, then it suggests that First Officer Murdoch could not have
committed suicide.
Secondary Accounts of an Officer’s Suicide
The following information is taken from secondary accounts of survivors who
claimed to have seen a suicide. Since these accounts are taken mainly from
press interviews and 1912 books and cannot be confirmed elsewhere, their
reliability may not be as good as primary accounts which state that a suicide
did or did not occur. In these cases, we cannot be certain that the survivor
actually said what they are quoted as saying.
Second Class passenger Charlotte Collyer: Mrs Collyer was rescued in
Boat No. 14. She reported:
He [Murdoch] was a masterful man, astoundingly brave and cool. I
had met him the day before, when he was inspecting the second-cabin
quarters, and thought him a bull-dog of a man who would not be afraid
of anything. This proved true; he kept order to the last, and died at his
post. They say he shot himself. I do not know.
35
Mrs Collyer did not witness the alleged suicide herself and did not state who
told her about it, so the reliability of this account cannot be determined.
Second Class passenger Mary Davis: Miss Davis was rescued in Boat No.
13. A press article quoted her as saying that she ‘told of seeing First Officer
Murdoch commit suicide by shooting’.
36 These are the only details given, and
no actual quote from her was provided. Since Miss Davis was in No. 13,
which was launched from the aft starboard part of the Boat Deck around 1:40
a.m., it may have been very difficult for her to see anyone or anything
happening on the forward end of the Boat Deck near the end, even if her
lifeboat did not get very far away before the sinking.
It is possible that Davis could have witnessed a separate incident entirely,
or it could indicate that the suicide actually happened at the aft boats. In either
case, First Officer Murdoch was seen at Boats Nos 15 and 10, as well as
Collapsibles C and A after the lowering of No. 13.
Third Class passenger Edward Dorking: Dorking was saved by leaping
overboard at the last second and reaching Collapsible B. He claimed to have
witnessed shootings and a suicide:
An officer stood beside the life-boats as they were being manned and
with a pistol in hand, threatened to kill the first man who got into a
boat without orders. The rule of ‘women first’ was rigidly enforced.
Two stewards hustled into a lifeboat that was being launched. They
were commanded to get out by the officers and on refusing to obey the
command, were shot down.
37
Dorking told more of the story in another interview:
Almost at the moment I climbed on the raft I could hear pistol shots
sounding from the Titanic. The sounds of shots had been distinct
during all my swim. I don’t know how many were fired, but they kept
on during all the time I was within hearing distance. I saw an officer, it
may have been the captain or it may not, shoot himself before I got
away from the ship.38
There are differing details between these accounts, but because the quotes
come from newspapers, it is difficult to say whether this is a result of
ambiguity on Dorking’s part, or the inaccurate reporting of the day. Dorking
tentatively identifies the officer that committed suicide as Captain Smith, but
makes it clear that he was far from certain in this identification. Dorking was
on the ship until the end, but unless primary accounts from him that mention
this incident are uncovered, it is difficult to know how reliable these
newspaper quotes really are.
Third Class passenger Edward Dorking.
What is interesting is that Dorking says the men were shot during the
launching of a boat, which appears consistent with Daly and Rheims.
Third Class passenger Soloman Abraham Hyman: Hyman was probably
rescued in Boat No. 13, since his New York Herald account details how his
lifeboat was the second to last launched in his section of the ship, and that it
was nearly swamped while being lowered by water rushing out of the
condenser. He claimed to have witnessed a shooting:
The officer who was standing at the rope had a pistol in his hand, and
he ordered everybody to keep back. First, one women screamed and
then another, and one man (I think he was an Italian) pushed toward the
boat and the officer fired at him.
39
Another press account, entitled ‘Saw Chief Officer Wilde End His Life With
Pistol’, attributes statements to Hyman to the effect that he saw an officer fire
on passengers and then kill himself. He is extensively quoted in the remainder
of the article, but curiously, no actual quote from him about this incident was
provided:
According to some of the passengers Chief Officer Wilde shot himself
when he saw the Titanic was doomed. He had spent his last hour
struggling with the third class passengers, and it is said had to use
violence to quiet them and keep them from stampeding the first and
second cabin sections. Abraham Hyman, of Manchester, England, who
was coming to this country to join a brother in Paterson, N.J., is one of
the passengers who told about seeing Chief Officer Wilde rushing
around with a revolver in his hand. There was not much panic before
he left the Titanic, he said, except when the chief officer fired into a
belligerent group of third class passengers. A man standing next to him
had his chin shot off, he said.40
Since no actual quote attributed to Hyman is provided, the reliability of this
report is unknown. Both accounts quote him as saying that he saw an officer
fire on passengers.
Of interest is the fact that Chief Officer Wilde is specifically mentioned as
the officer who shot himself. It is also noteworthy that we have here yet
another mention of a passenger being shot in the chin.
However, we cannot say whether Hyman himself mentioned Wilde by
name, or only said ‘the chief officer’. It is possible that detail was added by a
reporter. There is definite evidence of Murdoch at No. 13, but none that Wilde
was involved in the loading of any of the aft starboard boats. It is improbable
that Hyman could have witnessed an incident happening on the forward part of
the Boat Deck from his location near Boat No. 13.
However, it is possible that he may have witnessed a separate incident
since Miss Davis, also rescued in No. 13, reportedly claimed to have
witnessed a suicide as well. Of note, Chief Officer Wilde was seen after the
launch of No. 13, working on Boat No. 2, as well as Collapsibles C and D.
Third Class passenger Carl Jansson: Jansson remained on the ship until the
end, and was washed overboard as she sank. He was rescued in Collapsible
A. Jansson was on the starboard forward section of the Boat Deck as the
Bridge began to submerge:
Suddenly I heard shrieks and cries amidship, and the sharp report of
several shots. People began to run by me toward the stern of the ship,
and as I started to run I realized that the boat was beginning to go
down very rapidly, and there was quite a decline noticeable in the
deck, showing that her nose was being buried. A wave struck me and I
went overboard.41
Another press account attributed quotes to Jansson that suggest he saw an
officer commit suicide. While the article claims that Jansson saw ‘Chief
Officer Murdock [sic] shoot himself’, the actual quote provided from him
does not mention Murdoch’s name:
Shortly before the last boat was launched I glanced toward the bridge
and saw the chief officer place a revolver in his mouth and shoot
himself. His body toppled overboard.42
This account is very similar to another report that appeared in papers the day
after the Carpathia reached New York:
Passengers declare they saw Chief Officer Wilde shoot himself and
that his body fell into the sea.
43
If Jansson claimed to have witnessed a suicide as the one interview suggests,
then it seems likely that he was one of the sources for the above statement.
The account attributed to Jansson states that the ‘chief officer’ shot himself,
but does not specifically mention Wilde’s name. That may have been an
extrapolation by a reporter. Two things about this alleged suicide account
stand out. First, Jansson only claimed to have heard shots fired in the first
interview, and did not specifically say he saw a suicide. Second, other than
the timing, the suicide account attributed to him does not agree with the details
of a possible suicide which are found in the primary eyewitness accounts.
Thus, it seems reasonable to believe that the second account is an
exaggeration or twisting of his words to make the story more dramatic, unless
Jansson had witnessed another incident entirely.
If Jansson did indeed hear or see shots fired just before the last boat was
launched, then this would corroborate the other accounts that place an incident
at the forward end of the Boat Deck near the end, during the loading of
Collapsible C or D. Reporters seem to have interpreted his claim that it was
the ‘chief officer’ in different ways, with one newspaper interpreting this to
mean Murdoch, and another to mean Wilde. Unfortunately, due to
uncertainness about the reliability of the quotes attributed to Jansson, no firm
conclusions can be drawn about them.
Able-Bodied Seaman George McGough: A press account attributes the
following quotes to McGough:
Both Captain Smith and Junior Chief Officer Murdoch were now
together on the bridge, the water being up to their armpits. The next I
saw of Captain Smith was in the water holding a child in his arms. He
swam to the raft on which was Second Officer Lightoller and gave the
child to the mate. That was the last. He and the ship went down, and
Murdoch -- God help me; don’t ask me what I saw.
44
McGough may have been referring to a suicide with his statement of ‘God
help me, don’t ask me what I saw’. However, having boarded Boat No. 9 fifty
minutes before the ship sank, McGough would not have been in a position to
see either Smith or Murdoch at the end. Second Officer Lightoller did not
report seeing Smith in the water, much less receiving a child from him.
Third Class passenger Oscar Olsson: Olsson was rescued in Collapsible A.
He gave some accounts using the name Oskar Johann or Oscar Johansson. He
claimed to have heard gunfire in the last moments as the Bridge was plunging
under:
We saw the water come up and up until it almost reached him
[Murdoch]. Then we heard a pistol shot. Many people thought he had
shot himself.
45
This account seems to indicate that Olsson did not actually see the suicide. If
accurate, it would be yet another account from someone who was near the
forward end of the Boat Deck as the ship sank, and who heard gunfire.
Third Class passenger Anna Sjöblom: Anna Sjöblom seems to have been
rescued in Boat No. 16, the first of the aft port boats lowered, around 1:20
a.m. She met with the press at the home of her aunt and uncle following the
disaster, and gave the following account:
When we rowed away from the Titanic, my face was toward the
sinking steamship and the things I saw I will never forget. I saw an
officer shoot himself through the temple with a revolver.
46
Since Sjöblom left in a boat from the aft port side, it is unlikely that she could
have witnessed a shooting or suicide on the forward half of the Boat Deck
after she left, if that is where it happened. She could have witnessed an
incident at the aft boats, or a separate incident entirely. Davis and Hyman may
have reported shooting near Boat No. 13, which was launched on the aft
starboard side; yet that was over twenty minutes after Sjöblom left the ship,
making it unlikely that she could have witnessed an event at that location
either.
Given the limited information, all that can be said for the accuracy of
Sjöblom’s statements is that two separate reporters who visited her at her
home quoted her as saying the same thing regarding a suicide, suggesting she
actually made the claim.
Third Class passenger Victor Sunderland: Sunderland claimed to be near
Collapsible A with Second Officer Lightoller when the Boat Deck began to
submerge, and that he was following Lightoller when he leapt over the port
side. Lightoller’s own accounts contradict this; he never said that he worked
at Collapsible A, but rather that he jumped from the roof of the Officers’
Quarters. Sunderland was rescued aboard Collapsible B. He claimed to have
seen shots fired:
In one boat, partly filled with women, a man sat - I think he was a
Russian. An officer told him to get out, but he wouldn’t. The officer
fired his revolver one or twice and still the man sat there. The officer
then shot him and he dropped back in his seat. He was lifted up and
dropped overboard.47
Sunderland gave another interview in which he mentioned shots being fired:
I saw an officer fire his revolver once or twice, killing a man. ... I
started heading towards the stern of the ship and heard another shot. I
asked what had happened, and a gentleman told me that an officer had
shot himself. Seeing that I could not secure a spot in a lifeboat, I leapt
from the ship and into the water just a few feet below.
48
Sunderland was near the forward area of the Boat Deck, where other accounts
suggest shots were fired, and claims to have witnessed just that. The first
account does not mention a suicide, and the second makes it clear that he did
not witness it himself. Since no private accounts in which he mentions this
incident have yet been uncovered, the reliability of the quotes attributed to
him are unknown.
Of note, Sunderland places the incident with the ‘Russian’ being shot
sometime before water reached the Boat Deck, at a regular boat that was
loading from the deck.
Barber August Weikman: Weikman was washed overboard from the
forward starboard side of the Boat Deck and reached Collapsible A. He
claimed to have seen First Officer Murdoch fire on a passenger:
They put the women and the children in the lifeboats and then they
started to put in the crew with them. One man to every five women.
When no women were near the boats they took the men, whether they
were passengers or crew, anybody who stood nearest, and this
accounts for the three Chinamen who were taken off. First Officer
Murdock [sic] shot a foreigner who tried to climb over the rail into a
boat. ... While this was going on I was on the upper deck assisting the
passengers to the boats. I had a life belt on, and when the forward part
of the ship listed I was washed overboard by a huge wave. Looking
backward, I could see Captain Smith, who had been standing on the
bridge, swimming back to the place where he had stood, having been
washed off the Titanic by the same wave that had washed me from the
ship into the water.
49
In his affidavit for the Senate Inquiry, Weikman mentioned nothing about
seeing Murdoch shoot anyone, nor did he mention seeing Captain Smith
swimming in the water.
50
It is possible that he omitted these details, or that the
quotes were fabricated by a reporter. If Weikman did see Captain Smith in the
water, however, it agrees with Bride’s and Mellors’ stories of the Captain’s
fate.
Of note, the quotes attributed to Weikman place the shooting at a boat
where passengers had to climb over a rail. The only boats where this was
necessary were the foreword-most boats on both sides of the ship, where
there was a solid bulwark that had to be climbed over to board them. Boats
launched from these davits included Nos 1 and 2, as well as Collapsibles C
and D.
Second Class passenger Charles Whilems: Whilems was rescued in Boat
No. 9. He gave the following account:
Mr. Wilhelms [sic] declared that he had heard several shots fired on
the Titanic after he left the ship, and that several of his companions
told him they had seen Murdock [sic], one of the officers, shoot
himself. Other survivors, he said, told him that several passengers had
been shot by officers in trying to force their way into the lifeboats.
51
Unfortunately, both the origins and the timing of the shots Whilems heard are
unknown. Also frustrating is that the identities of his ‘companions’ can not be
established. The reliability of his statements thus cannot be determined.
Saloon Steward Thomas Whiteley: Whiteley was swept overboard as the
ship sank, and was rescued aboard Collapsible B. He gave the following
account:
Murdoch shot one man – I did not see this, but three others did – and
then shot himself.
52
Unfortunately, Whiteley did not mention who these ‘three others’ were, so
there is no way of checking the veracity of his statements. In another account,
Whiteley claimed that he overheard two of the Titanic’s lookouts say ‘no
wonder Mr. Murdoch shot himself’, while they were discussing alleged
ignored warnings from the Crow’s Nest.
53 However, in all of his Titanic
lectures, given after the sinking, Whiteley never mentioned that he personally
witnessed any shootings.
54
Since Whiteley’s statements about the suicide appear to be based on
hearsay, they must be weighed with caution. However, they do support the fact
that stories of an officer shooting someone, and then killing himself, were
widely circulating long before the Carpathia reached New York.
First Class passenger Eleanor Widener: Mrs Widener was rescued in Boat
No. 4. She claimed to have witnessed the following:
As the boat pulled away from the Titanic I saw one of the officers
shoot himself in the head, and a few minutes later saw Capt. Smith
jump from the bridge into the sea.
55
Another press article suggests that Mrs Widener did not witness the alleged
suicide herself, but was of the opinion that it had happened due to information
she heard from someone else.
56 The first interview may be an extrapolation of
her words by a reporter.
Boat No. 4, lowered at 1:50 a.m., was relatively close to the ship when it
sank; it was close enough that its occupants were able to pull several people
from the water who had jumped overboard and swam to the boat.
Conceivably, then, she could have witnessed events unfolding on the deck.
However, since no reliable statements from others known to have been
rescued in No. 4 have been found to corroborate her account, this all seems
unlikely – particularly since No. 4 had rowed aft. It also seems unlikely that
she actually witnessed Captain Smith jumping overboard, even though that
statement agrees with what Harold Bride and several other witnesses saw.
Secondary Accounts, No Officer Suicide
J. Bruce Ismay, Managing Director of the White Star Line: Ismay was
rescued in Collapsible C. When a reporter asked what Captain Smith was
doing when he last saw him, Ismay said that he was ‘standing on the bridge’.
He was then asked if it was true that he committed suicide. Ismay said that no,
he had ‘heard nothing of it’.
57
Ismay did not actually see what happened to
Captain Smith.
Second Class passenger William Mellors: Mellors was rescued in
Collapsible A, and was on the ship until the end. He said that ‘Captain Smith
… did not shoot himself’, but that he ‘jumped from the bridge’.
58 He did not
say anything regarding the fates of the other officers.
59
Fireman Harry Senior: Senior was rescued aboard Collapsible B. He
claimed to have seen Captain Smith leap overboard as the ship plunged under.
This agrees with what Bride and Mellors stated. However, Senior also
claimed that Captain Smith was carrying a baby at the time and handed it to
someone on Collapsible B.
60 Entrée Cook Isaac Maynard, it was later
claimed, was the man who took the baby from Captain Smith.
61 However, the
reliability of these statements is unknown.
62
Carpathia Passengers, White Star Line Personnel
The following information comes from statements by Carpathia passengers
and crewmembers, or from statements by White Star Line employees who
were not onboard the Carpathia, but who spoke with survivors and heard
reports of a shooting and/or suicide. These accounts again indicate that the
stories were circulating before the Carpathia even reached New York.
First Class Carpathia passenger May Birkhead: Ms Birkhead wrote a news
story detailing the discussions she had with Titanic survivors on the
Carpathia. She was told that Captain Smith shot himself with a pistol as the
ship was sinking.
63 Unfortunately, she does not list her source for this
statement.
First Class Carpathia passenger Dr Frank Blackmarr: As mentioned
previously, Dr Blackmarr was told by Eugene Daly that an unnamed officer
shot two men then killed himself. This was the only report of shootings that
Blackmarr heard.
Second Class Carpathia passenger Carlos F. Hurd: As mentioned
previously, while interviewing passengers, Hurd was told there had been
gunfire during the sinking. He also heard rumors that Captain Smith or First
Officer Murdoch committed suicide as the ship sank. He did not reveal his
sources.
Carpathia passenger Dr J. F. Kemp: Doctor Kemp claimed to have heard
the following story from a survivor:
A boy and one of the last children to be taken from the Titanic told me
that he saw Capt. Smith put a pistol to his head and then fall down.
64
Kemp went on to say that he didn’t know if the story was true, but that he
found it hard to believe that the child would have made it up. He also stated
that a ‘number of passengers’ spoke of the use of pistols and shots being fired,
but that they were all too busy helping the survivors to follow up on the
claims.
The only ‘boys’ who left late enough to have seen this would be either
Jack Thayer, who escaped on Collapsible B or William Carter Jr, who left in
No. 4. Thayer never made any early claims about witnessing a shooting;
Carter’s press account of April 21 1912 in the Brooklyn Eagle mentions an
officer shooting a passenger.
Carpathia Surgeon Dr Arpad Lengyel:A survivor of the Titanic reportedly
told Dr Lengyel that some of the survivors in the boat he was rescued in saw
Captain Smith shoot down two men who tried to climb into a lifeboat.
65
 Since
this story is third-hand at best – and from a press account – the accuracy of the
quotes attributed to Dr Lengyel are questionable.
Carpathia Captain Arthur Rostron: Captain Rostron spoke with reporters
following the disaster and was adamant that Captain Smith did not commit
suicide:
‘I wish you would deny in as strong language as permissable this
persistent report send out by some press concern that Capt. Smith
killed himself when he realised that the Titanic was doomed,’ said
Capt. Rostron. ‘I have it from the lips of members of his crew who
tried to save his life that he did not commit suicide. He stuck to the
ship until he was washed from the bridge. Then some of his men
caught him in the swirling waters and landed him safely on the edge of
a lifeboat, but he tumbled back into the ocean and went down.’66
Unfortunately, Captain Rostron did not mention who told him of Captain
Smith’s fate.
White Star Line Assistant to the Vice-President Fred Toppin: Toppin
spoke with the Titanic’s surviving officers, and with some of her
crewmembers following the Carpathia’s arrival in New York. Many years
later, Toppin was interviewed by researcher Ernie Robinson, who knew him
between 1934–1941. Toppin told Robinson that he thought two officers had
shot themselves, and that this was the result of conversations with ‘senior
surviving crew’ and others at the pier when they arrived.67
Toppin did not mention which officers he believed had shot themselves,
or who specifically had told him this. This information must be taken with
caution, since Toppin was recalling from memory words spoken to him many
years earlier.
Refuted or False Accounts and Accounts of Unknown
Reliability
These accounts of an officer’s suicide are ones which were refuted by the
survivors whose names the words are attributed to, are known to have been
made up, or in which no survivor name is given. Thus, it is impossible to
determine the reliability of the accounts.
First Class passenger Paul Chevré: Chevré was rescued in Boat No. 7. A
press account quoted him as saying that he saw Captain Smith shoot himself.
68
On April 22, 1912 he stormed into the office of Le Presse in Quebec, and
demanded that a story be run saying that the entire account was a lie.
69
First Class passenger Robert Williams Daniel:
I saw the captain holding the bridge after the ship had sunk to the level
of the sea. Then he went overboard.70
Daniel also claimed that he knew that First Officer Murdoch committed
suicide because he was ‘not more than ten feet away’ at the time.
71 However,
a press interview with Trimmer Thomas Patrick Dillon, who was on the Poop
Deck when the ship went under, places Daniel at the stern, jumping overboard
as the ship plunged under.
72 Dillon subsequently boarded Boat No. 4. There is
evidence that suggests Daniel may have leapt overboard from the stern, and
perhaps also reached Boat No. 4. However, Colonel Archibald Gracie
believed he was rescued in Boat No. 7, and an unpublished private letter from
First Class passenger Orian Davidson describes him as being in Boat No. 3
with her, helping to row.
73 Whichever version of his escape is true, Daniel
would not have been in a position to see what was happening on the forward
portion of the Boat Deck near the end.
First Class passenger Dr Washington Dodge: Dodge was rescued in Boat
No. 13. One account quoted him as saying that he saw an officer gun down
two men then shoot himself.
74
In a public address given in San Francisco, Dr
Dodge denied having seen any shootings, and said that most of the accounts
attributed to him in the press were ‘wholly unfounded’.
75
First Class passenger Lady Lucy Duff Gordon: Lady Duff Gordon was
rescued in Boat No. 1. One account quoted her as saying that she heard shots
as the Boat Deck began to submerge.
76 Another account had her saying that
she saw an officer shoot a male passenger, and that his body fell into her
lifeboat.
77
Although these accounts are interesting in light of Laura Francatelli’s
account of a suicide, at the British Inquiry, Lady Duff Gordon denied most of
the quotes attributed to her in the press.
78 Nobody reported a passenger being
shot near No. 1, and no body was recovered from that boat.
Fireman Frederick Harris: Harris was probably one of the men transferred
out of Boat No. 14 by Fifth Officer Lowe once it was afloat. A press account
attributed to him says that he saw Captain Smith leap overboard with a child,
and that he believed First Officer Murdoch was the one who committed
suicide.
79
If he was indeed rescued in Boat No. 14, there is no way he would
have been in a position to see Captain Smith at the end.
First Class passenger James McGough: McGough was rescued in Boat No.
7. A press account quotes McGough as saying that he heard shots fired as the
bow of the ship went under, that he was told that Captain Smith committed
suicide, and that several men were shot for pushing ahead of women and
children.
80 McGough specifically denied hearing shots fired in his affidavit
for the Senate Inquiry.
81
Quartermaster J. R. Moody: Someone calling himself ‘Quartermaster
Moody’ gave sensational accounts in which he claimed to have seen First
Officer Murdoch shoot himself.
82 Other portions of ‘Quartermaster Moody’s’
account claim that he was on the Bridge at the helm when the ship struck the
iceberg. There were no Quartermasters with that name onboard Titanic.
If Moody was a real person who had been at or near the ship’s helm
during the collision, he would either have to have been Sixth Officer Moody –
an impossibility, since he did not survive – or Quartermaster Hichens, who
left the ship at 1:10 a.m. in Boat No. 6. This boat rowed swiftly away from
the sinking ship, so Hichens could not have seen anything on deck at the end.
No quotes from Hichens alleging anything resembling the ‘Moody’ quotes
have been discovered.
Steward Albert Smith: Someone calling himself Albert Smith, who claimed
to have been rescued in Boat No. 11, said he saw First Officer Murdoch shoot
himself after all the lifeboats had been launched.83 Nobody by the name of
Albert Smith appears on the crew list.
Second Class passenger Charles Eugene Williams: While speaking to a
reporter, Charles Williams’ friend George E. Standing made some interesting
assertions about Williams’ experiences. Standing claimed that Williams had
seen Captain Smith swim up to his lifeboat and hand over a child; when he
was told that First Officer Murdoch had killed himself, Standing’s story went,
Captain Smith then pushed away from the boat.
84
In reality, Williams was not in contact with the water and would not have
been in a position to see the events his friend described. Fifth Officer Lowe
testified in the Senate Inquiry that he had taken Williams into Boat No. 14 to
help row.
85
Able Bodied Seaman Jack Williams: Someone using the name Jack Williams
claimed that he and fellow crewmember William French saw Murdoch shoot
himself as the ship sank, and that Captain Smith did not commit suicide.
86 No
crewmembers by the name of Jack Williams or William French were aboard
the Titanic.
Accounts from unknown sources
87
Chief Officer Wilde stood on the bridge after the collision. He raised
his arm and shot himself. He dropped where he stood. – No name
attributed.88
Murdock [sic] was splendid, too; but I fear it is true that he did shoot
himself. He did not do so, however, until the very end, when he had
done everything he could for others. – An unknown ‘steward in the
first-class saloon’.
89
Mr. Murdoch calmly pulled out his revolver and blew out his brains. –
No name attributed.90
[One] or two Italians tried to rush the boats, but the chief officer kept
them back, and finally fired at them, whether he killed them he could
not say. Then the officer shot himself. – Anonymous crewmember
leaving the SS Lapland.
91
Other Information Relating to a Suicide
1) Which officers would have had guns? – Answering the question of
whether an officer could have committed suicide must, by necessity, involve
ascertaining which officers would have had access to a firearm in the first
place. While Second Officer Lightoller worked on the forward port lifeboats,
Chief Officer Wilde approached him and requested that he direct them to the
ship’s firearms. This may have been in response to events at Boat No. 5, or
the crowds of passengers beginning to mass at the aft port boats. Captain
Smith, Chief Officer Wilde, First Officer Murdoch and Second Officer
Lightoller all went to the arms locker in the First Officer’s cabin and received
Webley revolvers.
92 Lightoller was the only officer among them to survive. It
appears that the other officers (Moody, Lowe, Boxhall, and Pitman) were not
present at this time, although Chief Officer Wilde could have taken extra
revolvers (if there were any) with him to hand out to them later. However,
there is absolutely no evidence to suggest that this happened.
Sixth Officer Moody was the only officer who perished that was not
present when the firearms were handed out. Fifth Officer Lowe had his own
personal weapon, a Browning automatic, in his cabin; he used this weapon to
fire warning shots during the lowering of Boat No. 14. Thus, it is conceivable
that some of the other officers may have had personal firearms as well,
including Moody. Again, even though this is a possibility, there is no evidence
at all to indicate that this was the case.
Many years after the sinking, First Class passenger Jack Thayer described
Chief Purser Hugh McElroy as having fired a revolver during the lowering of
Collapsible C.
93 Not a single other eyewitness corroborates Thayer on this
point; in fact, the other witnesses believed that Murdoch fired those shots, not
McElroy.
94 Even if McElroy had fired shots, where he had obtained a
revolver is unknown, since it is unlikely that his position as Purser would
have required him to have one in his possession. Yet like Lowe, it is possible
that he could have carried a personal firearm.
It has been suggested that the Masters-at-Arms may have had firearms, but
again, there is no evidence for it. Of the two Masters-at-Arms, one – Thomas
W. King – perished. There is at least some evidence that a few of the Able
Bodied Seamen and other crewmembers may have had guns aboard the ship;
however these would likely have been personally-owned firearms, rather than
ones issued to them as part of their job. Second Class passenger Imanita
Shelley claimed that ‘the sailor in charge of the boat’ she was in, Boat No. 10,
threatened a man with a revolver after he had jumped down into it as it
lowered away – an act which had injured at least one woman in the boat, and
angered the crewmembers aboard.95 Able Bodied Seaman Buley was in
charge of this boat, and Able Bodied Seaman Evans was also aboard, so it is
likely that she was referring to one of these two individuals as the one she
thought was armed.
Among passengers, it appears as though many may have had firearms in
their possession: Second Class passenger Alfred Nourney, traveling under the
title ‘Baron Alfred von Drachstedt’, fired off a revolver in Boat No. 7 in an
attempt to call for help;96
 First Class passenger Norman Chambers admitted to
having an automatic pistol with him during the sinking;
97 and Second Class
passenger Michel Navratil’s body was recovered with a loaded revolver on
it.
98 Some reports of questionable reliability suggest that First Class
passenger Major Archibald Butt may have had a firearm on his person as
well.
99
It is impossible to tell exactly how many other passengers had
firearms aboard the ship, but based on this small sampling, it appears that it
was common.
In summary, of the officers lost that night (Smith, Wilde, Murdoch and
Moody), the senior three were known to be in a position to have received a
pistol. There is no direct evidence that Moody had a gun that night, although
we cannot say for certain that he did not. There is only Thayer’s report –
made 28 years after the sinking – that McElroy fired a gun; still, it is
questionable whether the Purser would even have had one in the first place.
There is evidence that numerous passengers were armed. By this evidence
alone, we can say for certain who had a firearm in their possession, but we
cannot say for certain who did not have one.
2) Why were officers sometimes misidentified? – In short, this seems most
attributable to the officer re-shuffle at Southampton, where Chief Officer
Wilde was brought aboard temporarily, and Murdoch and Lightoller were
reduced in rank a step, with former Second Officer Blair leaving the ship.
This apparently caused great confusion. It can be established from
photographic evidence that Lightoller did not change his uniform insignia
before the ship left Southampton; it would seem that this may also have
applied to Murdoch.
During both the Senate and British Inquiry, some crewmen specifically
identified Wilde as the Chief Officer, but other crew members specifically
referred to Murdoch as the ‘chief officer’.
100 Other members of the crew used
the term ‘chief officer’ without a name attached, and in many cases there is no
way to tell exactly which of these men they were referring to.
Able Bodied Seaman Joseph Scarrott had this to say about the lifeboat
drill at the dock in Southampton on the morning of sailing:
The boat turned out; we were told to put our lifebelts on, so many men,
there were both watches there, an officer there, junior officers, and
two chief officers.
101
It is unknown whether Scarrott really meant to say senior officers instead of
two chiefs, or if he was being specific as to what he saw. If Murdoch did not
change his uniform, it would easily explain many of the misidentifications the
night of the sinking.
The lighting on the deck, or lack thereof, is another factor one has to
consider regarding the difficulty in identifications. The Boat Deck and other
decks were not nearly as well lit as they are portrayed in movies of the
disaster. Saloon Steward William Ward testified about this factor:
I think it was Chief Officer Murdoch [who called out for the women to
get into Boat No. 9]. I would not be sure whether it was him or the
purser. They were both tall men, and I would not be sure which one it
was. It was dark, you know.
102
Obviously, it was easy to confuse people during the lifeboat loading, and the
differences in the uniforms did not help him to discover if it was Murdoch or
McElroy that he saw.
Since passengers and officers typically did not mingle on White Star Line
ships, it is likely that many of the passengers would not have been able to tell
Murdoch from Wilde. As described earlier, even Colonel Gracie did not
know which officer was which until someone told him who was who after the
sinking.
However, there are some cases when passengers knew officers. Second
Class passenger Charlotte Collyer’s account tells of having met First Officer
Murdoch, and reveals one way in which a passenger might come to know an
officer:
I had met him [Murdoch] the day before, when he was inspecting the
second-cabin quarters.
103
In addition, the Hoyt family was said to have known Captain Smith,
104 and the
Speddens were said to be acquainted with First Officer Murdoch.
105 These
factors illustrate the difficulty that most passengers and even crewmembers
may have had in identifying the officers, factors which further complicate the
question of which officer may have shot himself, if anyone did.
Final Analysis
As can be seen from the accounts presented in this article, much of the
‘evidence’ of an officer committing suicide is of dubious nature. Many of the
survivor accounts disagree with each other, and some of the survivors
probably would not have been in a position, either on the ship or close enough
to it, to see what stories run in the newspapers quoted them as saying. Further
complicating matters, many accounts of an officer’s suicide were fabricated
by reporters or later refuted by the people they were attributed to.
With all of the sensational press stories and rumors, it seems impossible
to say for certain what actually happened, other than that some sort of event
must have spawned the rumors that circulated onboard the Carpathia.
However, among all of the flotsam and jetsam, we do start to see some
consistency.
There is some evidence from passengers saved in Boat No. 13 (Davis and
Hyman) that may suggest a suicide occurred near that boat, because both
witnesses claimed to have seen a shooting or suicide. However, with the
exception of a private letter written by Third Class passenger Karl Albert
Midtsjø – in which he states that ‘someone was shot when they tried to push
their way into the boats’
106 – no other evidence has been found that suggests
that gunfire, much less a suicide, occurred during the loading of the aft
starboard boats. The existing evidence is not very convincing, since there are
no direct quotes from Davis or Hyman about the alleged incident, and Midtsjø
may have been referring to something that he did not even witness for himself.
Several of the accounts examined refer to gunfire on the forward end of
the Boat Deck, apparently very late in the loading process of a boat, and just
before it lowered away. Based on the descriptions given, it appears likely that
this boat was either Collapsible C or D, since these accounts describe the
boat lowering, and then go on to describe water reaching the deck, or the ship
plunging shortly after the shooting/suicide.
Even more convincing is that there are two eyewitnesses whose words are
taken from primary sources, and who gave multiple accounts of a suicide or
shots fired at that time and area of the ship (Daly and Rheims). There seems to
be no motive for lying, since some of their statements were made privately in
letters, statements to family members or, in Daly’s case, a court of law. There
is no evidence that Daly and Rheims ever met each other, yet both described
seeing nearly the same thing.
Their statements, coupled with the secondary accounts of those who
claimed to have witnessed a suicide or to have heard gunfire as one of the last
boats was loading or lowering (Dorking, Jansson, Sunderland, and Weikman),
and were in the correct position to have witnessed or heard it, strongly
suggests that the shooting and suicide story may indeed have a basis in fact.
Other witnesses (R. N. Williams and Olsson) also describe a suicide, but
apparently place it a few minutes later, during the attempted launch of
Collapsible A, since they describe water having reached the Boat Deck at the
time.
One additional witness, Saloon Steward Walter Nichols, may lend further
credence to the story of shots fired at this later time and location on the
starboard side. Sitting some distance off the starboard side in Boat No. 15, he
described the following in a private letter to his sister in New York City, Mrs
James Openshaw:
I could see that she was down a good deal by the head because the
propeller was sticking half way out of the water. When we were a
couple hundred feet away from the ship I saw two flashes and heard
two revolver reports from near the bridge. All the boats had been
lowered and I did not know what the shots meant.
107
Locations, Motivations and Means
In this section, the possible motivation of the various ‘suspects’ for having
committed suicide is addressed. Please keep in mind that all of the comments
in this section are merely speculative, as there is no way to actually ‘know’
what was going through these men’s minds in the final stages of the sinking.
People can react very differently under the same circumstances during a crisis
situation. Certain motivations were common to all these men – the imminent
sinking of the ship, and the impending death of most of those still on it,
including the officer himself. Also – was this unknown officer involved in
passengers being shot to prevent them from rushing a lifeboat, as some of the
accounts say? If so, the suicide could have been overcome by the shock of
those events.
Captain Edward Smith: As shown above in some of the accounts themselves,
Captain Smith was the subject of several stories that he shot himself. Many of
the early press accounts and headlines of the disaster claimed that he did so,
and these rumors were widespread enough that Captain Rostron felt the need
to refute them. Some of the papers printed headline stories stating that he
killed himself,
108 and one even went as far as to commission an artist to draw
a scene of him shooting himself.
109
 Smith’s body was not recovered.
Possible Motivation: Captain Smith was the man ultimately responsible for
the Titanic – and those aboard her – regardless of whether he was on the
Bridge during the collision. Even though he was due to retire soon, the sinking
of the Titanic and the subsequent loss of life would be a very large blemish on
his reputation.
Location: A number of accounts place Smith on the forward area of the Boat
Deck, near the Bridge, not long before it dipped under. Bride’s and Mellors’
accounts seem credible, and both describe him diving off the Bridge as it
began to submerge. There are numerous other accounts that indicate that Smith
jumped overboard, and was seen in the water following the sinking.
110
 If these
accounts are correct, they eliminate the possibility of Smith having committed
suicide.
A period newspaper illustration of Captain Smith’s last moments.
The only evidence besides wild rumors which indicates Smith could have
shot himself is 1) the account of Richard Norris Williams, who heard gunfire
near the spot where he and his father last saw Captain Smith, and 2) the
account from Dorking, where he tentatively names Smith as the officer he saw
shoot himself – even though he was far from certain in this identification.
Onboard the Carpathia, Dr Kemp heard an unnamed boy say that he saw
Smith shoot himself, but without a name attached to the account, there is no
way to determine its veracity.
The Means: Captain Smith was one of the officers who went to the Chief
Officer’s cabin when the revolvers were brought out and distributed.
Chief Officer Henry Wilde: While less numerous than headlines claiming
Captain Smith or First Officer Murdoch shot themselves, there were numerous
stories in the press claiming that Wilde killed himself. However, the rumors
and references naming Wilde as the officer who committed suicide are not
very convincing, in and of themselves. The account by ‘unknown’ could easily
have been a fabrication by a reporter, and the mention of Wilde in the Hyman
account may also be a reporter’s fabrication, as he himself did not mention
Wilde. The term ‘Chief Officer’ is used in a number of accounts, but as
detailed earlier, not all survivors actually meant Wilde when they referred to
that rank. Any references to the Chief Officer shooting himself, without the
provision of a name, would apply equally well to Murdoch as they would to
Wilde. Wilde’s body was not recovered.
Possible Motivation: It has been suggested that Wilde could have been
despondent over the death of his wife and two sons, which occurred about a
year and a half before the maiden voyage, and that the disaster could have
pushed him over the edge into suicide. An acquaintance of Wilde’s claimed
that when speaking about his wife, he had heard Wilde say that ‘he didn’t care
particularly how he went or how soon he joined her’.
111
However, it is impossible to say whether Wilde still felt this way during
the maiden voyage or not. Second Officer Lightoller remembered seeing Chief
Officer Wilde during the sinking. He recalled: ‘[I] was on my way back on
deck again when I heard Wilde say, “I am going to put on my life-belt”. ’
112
 At
that point in time, right after the revolvers were handed out, it did not appear
that Wilde was suicidal; it seems that, to the contrary, he was still thinking
about survival – although this certainly could have changed later in the
sinking.
Others have suggested that Wilde was despondent over some sort of
career setback, and yet it is known that he was slated to receive his own
command. His trip on the Titanic would most likely have been a single roundtrip voyage, and then he most likely would have taken command of one of the
White Star liners which had been laid up due to the coal strike. This was what
his fellow officers said was the case; even if they were mistaken, being
brought aboard the newest liner in the fleet could not have been considered a
demotion by any means.
Location: Wilde’s whereabouts very late in the sinking are curiously absent
from survivor accounts. The last confirmed place that he was seen was during
the loading of Collapsible D. Lightoller was vague about where Wilde may
have gone after he sighted him there. Wilde appears to have at least threatened
men rushing Collapsible D with a gun;
113 shots may have been fired at that
boat (See Appendix H), and there is no known evidence that Wilde was seen
after the loading of that boat. Collapsible D is where Lightoller told Colonel
Gracie that he had been forced to fire warning shots, and where crewmembers
linked arms to prevent men from rushing the boat again. After the sinking,
Saloon Steward Littlejohn was asked if there was ‘any actual shooting’. He
responded that the ‘chief officer I think it was, shot one of the Italian waiters
belonging to the restaurant because he got into a boat and would not come out
of it when he was told to’.
114
It is unclear whether Littlejohn saw this incident
himself, or was told about it by someone else. Littlejohn had previously
served with Wilde and Murdoch onboard the Olympic, so while he – or his
source of information – could have been referring to Murdoch by that
mistaken rank, this account leaves open the real possibility that Wilde was
indeed involved in some sort of gunplay.
Details about Wilde’s despondent attitude prior to the voyage, as well as
the details in eyewitness accounts that suggest a shooting or suicide may have
occurred at either Collapsible C or D are intriguing. However, they are far
from conclusive.
What is certain is that Lightoller did not mention seeing Wilde near
Collapsible A; on the other hand, he was specific about having seen Murdoch
there, and denied that the latter officer shot himself. Lightoller did not write to
Wilde’s family issuing a similar denial. Allegedly, later in life, while he was
living in Hertfordshire, Lightoller admitted to an acquaintance that he ‘knew
someone who committed suicide that night’, but he didn’t specify who.115
One press article claimed that Wilde was last seen on the Bridge smoking
a cigarette, and that he waved goodbye to Lightoller as the ship sank.
116
Lightoller himself never claimed this in his testimony, only allowing that he
had last seen Wilde ‘quite a long time before the ship went down’.
117
The Means: Wilde was one of the officers who received a revolver from the
First Officer’s cabin. In fact, according to Lightoller, he was the one who
asked for them to be brought out, although there is circumstantial evidence that
Murdoch may have asked for the revolvers prior to Wilde’s having done so.118
First Officer William Murdoch: Many of the early rumors specifically
mention Murdoch as the officer who committed suicide. When examining
rumors of who may have shot himself as the ship sank, it is Murdoch who is
most often mentioned, and by name, not just rank. Yet this in itself does not
prove it was Murdoch, since none of the primary accounts of the alleged
suicide specifically identify him.
However, Miss Francatelli’s account indicated her belief that an officer
who had lowered her boat shot himself. Only two officers directly assisted in
the loading of Boat No. 1: Murdoch and Fifth Officer Lowe. Lowe survived.
According to the testimony of Hugh Woolner and others, Murdoch had
previously fired warning shots at Collapsible C during the loading process,
and before the boat began lowering away. This demonstrates that he was
willing to use his revolver if necessary to prevent a rush on a boat that could
potentially cost lives. Murdoch’s body was not recovered.
Possible Motivation: Murdoch was the officer directly in charge of the
Titanic in the hours leading up to the collision with the iceberg. As such, he
was responsible for the ship and all its passengers during that time, and may
have felt responsible for being unable to avert the collision.
Location: Murdoch was right where many of the primary accounts of a
suicide place the shooting: working at Collapsible C, and then trying to get
Collapsible A launched. Lightoller told Murdoch’s widow that he saw her
husband swept into the sea while working on the falls to Collapsible A.
Lightoller may later have told James McGiffin, the Marine Superintendent
of the White Star Line in Queenstown, that he saw Murdoch shoot a man,
although that is not certain at this time. If Lightoller’s account to Ada Murdoch
is accurate, then he could not be the officer who committed suicide. If his
account to McGiffin is accurate, then he may have been lying to Mrs Murdoch
about what really happened, in order to spare her feelings.
It is interesting to note that of the officers mentioned in press accounts,
Lightoller only felt the need to write a letter denying the rumors to Murdoch’s
widow. There were many rumors circulating about Smith and a few, although
not nearly as many, about Wilde as well. This opens an intriguing possibility:
Did Lightoller write the denial because he knew her husband was involved in
the rumored event? Possibly. Equally likely, however, is that he personally
knew that Murdoch did not commit suicide, and that he did not write denials
regarding the others because he did not have personal knowledge of the fates
of the other officers.
It is interesting to note that Lightoller is the only survivor to definitively
claim that Murdoch worked at Collapsible A. As discussed earlier, Colonel
Gracie did not know which officer he had seen and when, until told about it
after the sinking. He said that Lightoller told him Murdoch was the officer he
saw at that scene. Lamp Trimmer Hemming saw Sixth Officer Moody at
Collapsible A giving orders, but did not see Murdoch. This could simply be
due to the fact that so few people who were aboard that late in the sinking
lived to tell the tale, or it could mean that Murdoch was not at Collapsible A
when Lightoller said he was.
The Means: Murdoch was one of the officers who received a revolver when
they were passed out in the First Officer’s cabin earlier that evening. In fact,
there is circumstantial evidence suggesting he may have been the officer who
initially asked for the revolvers to be brought out, although Lightoller said that
Wilde was the officer who asked for them.
119
Sixth Officer James Moody: The only reason to consider Moody a ‘suspect’
for having committed suicide is that he was last seen by Samuel Hemming
working at Collapsible A, near the area where shots may have been fired.
Moody’s body was not recovered.
Possible Motivation: No specific motivation can be determined.
Location: Moody was last seen helping to lower Collapsible A from the roof
of the Officers’ Quarters, and telling the men working there that he didn’t want
the block, but would prefer to leave the boat on the deck. Lightoller did not
see him working on the falls to Collapsible A, although he was specific about
having seen First Officer Murdoch on the scene.
The Means: There is no evidence that Moody had a firearm, although he
could have been handed one by another officer. Another possibility is that,
like Fifth Officer Lowe, he owned a personal firearm.
Chief Purser Hugh McElroy: In 1940, Jack Thayer said that he saw
McElroy fire warning shots with a revolver at Collapsible C. However, this
account was given many years after the sinking, and is contradicted by other
witnesses who believe Murdoch fired those shots. Other than Thayer’s
account, there is no reason to suspect that McElroy had a revolver, much less
shot himself. McElroy’s body was recovered, and no mention of gunshot
wounds was noted.120
Possible Motivation: No specific motivation can be determined.
Location: Second Officer Lightoller last saw McElroy quietly standing off to
the side with the Assistant Purser and Senior and Junior Surgeon sometime
after No. 4 was lowered away on the port side at 1:50 a.m.
121 McElroy
wasn’t actively involved in the loading of the boats at that time, although there
is evidence that he had been involved in the loading earlier in the night.
122
This calls into question Thayer’s account of McElroy playing so prominent a
role in the loading and launch of Collapsible C, lowered just ten minutes later,
particularly since that boat was likely loading at the very time Lightoller saw
McElroy standing quietly off to the side.
The Means: Other than Thayer’s account 28 years after the sinking, there is
little reason to suspect that McElroy would have had a revolver. It is unlikely
that his position would have required him to have had one.
Chief Engineer Joseph Bell: There is absolutely no reason to consider Bell
a ‘suspect’ as the person who committed suicide, other than press accounts
mentioning that he was rumored to have shot himself. The source of these
allegations was not given.
123
 Bell’s body was not recovered.
Possible Motivation: No specific motivation can be determined.
Location: The last sighting of Bell may have been by Second Officer
Lightoller, after Boat No. 4 was lowered away at 1:50 a.m. Writing 28 years
after the disaster, Lightoller said that he saw all of the engineers after they
came up on deck. They had been released from their duty so that they could
take their chances up on deck.
124 This would mesh pretty well with other
available statements about men from the Engineering Department and at least
one engineer being seen on the deck by other survivors.
125 However, this
clashes with Lightoller’s 1912 testimony, in which he specifically denied
having seen the engineers on deck.
126
The Means: Other than the rumors in the press, there is absolutely no reason
to believe that Chief Engineer Bell had a firearm, or that he shot himself. No
actual eyewitness accounts claiming that he shot himself have surfaced.
Master-at-Arms Thomas W. King: Some researchers have suggested that it
might have been King who committed suicide. There is absolutely no
evidence to suggest this. His body was not recovered.
Possible Motivation: No specific motivation can be determined.
Location: King’s location during the loading of the collapsibles and during
the sinking in general is unknown.
The Means: It is unknown whether or not King’s position as Master-at-Arms
would have required him to have a firearm.
First Class passenger Major Archibald Butt: One of the more wild press
rumors was that Major Butt had entered into an agreement with fellow First
Class passengers George Widener, Colonel Astor, and Isidor Straus to kill
them first, then shoot himself before the boat sank, and that this act had been
carried out.
127
 Butt and Widener’s bodies were not recovered, but Astor’s and
Straus’s were. There is no mention that either body bore gunshot wounds.
128
Quotes attributed to a male Second Class passenger, most likely Albert
Caldwell,
129 and to Mrs Irene Harris,
130 claim that Major Butt helped keep
men from rushing the lifeboats at gunpoint; according to the former, Butt may
even have opened fired on them. Mrs Harris later denied that Major Butt had
fired a shot.
131 Caldwell was rescued in Boat No. 13 along with his wife and
10-month-old son, and Mrs Harris was rescued in Collapsible D. It is
plausible that if Major Butt was wearing his military uniform, that he could
have been mistaken for an officer.
Possible Motivation: No specific motivation can be determined.
Location: Archibald Butt appears to have been last seen during the
launching of Collapsible D around 2:05 a.m., where shots may have been
fired; it is also one of the locations where a suicide could potentially have
taken place, based on the eyewitness accounts.
The Means: Besides the questionable newspaper accounts, there is no
reason to suspect that Major Butt had a firearm or committed suicide.
One very important thing to remember when considering this subject is that
there is no solid evidence whatsoever that any bodies were recovered with
gunshot wounds. In a 1912 press account, an unnamed Carpathia passenger
stated that one of the bodies brought onboard the ship after the survivors were
rescued was a fireman who had been ‘shot by one of the officers for
disobeying orders’ and pushing into the last boat ahead of the women and
children. There is absolutely no eyewitness testimony which backs up this
claim.
There are also stories that John Snow, Jr, a Halifax undertaker who
worked on some of the Titanic victims, may have seen evidence of gunshot
wounds on some of the recovered victims.
132 This report cannot be
substantiated, however, and is second- or third-hand at best. Even if there
were passengers who were shot, or even if an officer committed suicide, the
odds that their bodies were recovered are highly unlikely. Only 337 out of the
1,496 victims’ bodies were recovered (23%).
133 Captain Lardner of the
Mackay-Bennett, the ship that recovered the bodies, stated that ‘not one of the
bodies that were recovered had any pistol shots’.
134
Alternative Explanations?
Some Titanic researchers have theorized that nobody shot anyone or
committed suicide, but that there is another way of explaining the eyewitness
accounts: when Titanic’s forward funnel fell, the wire stays supporting it
snapped, sounded like gunshots, and the flying wires cut passengers down,
fooling nearby witnesses into believing that the victims had been shot.
While this is an interesting theory and could explain the accounts of those
who merely heard noises that they believed were gunfire, it does not explain
the accounts of passengers such as Eugene Daly, George Rheims and others
who were nearby and claim to have seen the shooting occur during the loading
and lowering of a lifeboat. If Richard Norris Williams’ account is accurate, it
would seem to make the snapping funnel stay theory even less likely, since the
gunfire that he heard occurred well before his father was killed by the falling
forward funnel.
Another theory that has been put forward is that witnesses saw or heard
Fifth Officer Lowe fire warning shots at Boat No. 14, and due to the
confusion, believed that passengers were actually being fired upon. However,
this does not explain the accounts of those who heard shots fired shortly
before, or right as the Boat Deck plunged under. Boat No. 14 was launched at
1:25 a.m., while the Boat Deck plunged under fifty minutes later, around 2:15
a.m.
This theory also does not adequately explain the accounts of those who
said they actually saw a shooting right near them, or who like Daly, saw the
bodies lying on the deck. The timing of the shots at No. 14 does not match that
of the gunfire described by witnesses, many of whom place the alleged
shooting/suicide late in the loading and lowering of either Collapsibles C or
D, or during the attempted launch of Collapsible A.
Conclusions
Did an officer shoot men before committing suicide in the final stages of
Titanic’s sinking? If so, what was the identity of this officer? Unless more
eyewitness information is uncovered and made public, the matter is unlikely
to be settled with finality. As of this writing, there simply is not enough hard,
factual, reliable data available to make any concrete determinations about the
incident, much less about who may have been involved. Many of the people
who would have witnessed the suicide, if it occurred, or who saw how the
officers met their fate, perished in the disaster. Very few that were on the ship
during the loading and lowering/attempted lowering of the collapsible boats
lived to tell their story.
One does not envy the situation of the crewmembers who were scrambling
around Collapsibles C and D, and later Collapsible A: as they worked, it was
clear that their time was nearly up. Water was rapidly approaching the Boat
Deck, and over a thousand people were still on board. Collapsible C got
away from the starboard side just fifteen minutes before the Boat Deck
plunged under, and when Collapsible D was lowered away five minutes later,
the Boat Deck on the port side was just ten feet above the water, due to the
10° port list which had developed. During the attempted launch of Collapsible
A, between 2:00 to 2:15 a.m., the water approached and then consumed the
Boat Deck.
At Collapsible C on the starboard side, it is reported that there had been a
rush of men during the loading, that First Officer Murdoch had to fire shots to
control the situation, that the men were then pulled out, and only then were
women and children loaded aboard. Although the exact circumstances are
unclear, Chief Officer Wilde and Second Officer Lightoller may have had to
do the same when men pushed their way into Collapsible D, and the
crewmembers then linked arms to prevent another rush on the boat ahead of
the remaining women and children.
According to Colonel Gracie’s account, there was a mass of humanity,
most likely Steerage passengers, which came up from below deck at the last
minute, only to find the sea near, and nearly all of the boats gone. This crowd
included women and children. Scullion John Collins agreed with Gracie, and
testified in the Senate Inquiry that there were ‘hundreds on the starboard side’
during the attempted launch of Collapsible A.
135 Saloon Steward Edward
Brown testified in the British Inquiry that there were four or five women
waiting to get into that last collapsible, and that as the water came onto the
Boat Deck, there was a ‘scramble’ among the passengers to get into the
boat.
136
One can easily imagine how the situation at any of these three boats could
have escalated to the point where shots needed to be fired to prevent the
women and children from being crowded out, and to ensure that the boats
could be lowered away safely; in the case of Collapsible A, such a threat
might have been required to prevent people from getting in the way of the
efforts to cut the falls that fastened the collapsible to the sinking ship. By the
time these boats were being loaded, it was abundantly clear that the end
would come in minutes, as the water came up and up. There is no way of
telling for certain whether a shooting/suicide happened. What is certain is that
if Collapsibles C and D had not been lowered, or if Collapsible A had not
been freed, more people would have died in the sinking.
In the opinion of the authors, all of the men examined above were heroes
to the end – regardless of whether any of them were forced to open fire on
passengers in an attempt to restore order and to save the lives of others
including women and children, and regardless of whether they did or did not
take their own life. Despite any human failings that may have led to the
collision itself, there is documented evidence that all of the officers helped
load the lifeboats and saved many people – people who would have
otherwise lost their lives. The officers and crewmembers of the Titanic did
their duty until their final moments, when they could do no more.
Appendix L: Thomas Andrews’ Fate
One of the more poignant images of the Titanic disaster is that of Thomas
Andrews, standing by the fireplace in the First Class Smoking Room moments
before the final plunge, staring at the painting ‘Plymouth Harbor’, accepting
his fate with quiet resignation. This image has been accepted as the truth, and
has been perpetuated in many books and films about the disaster, including
James Cameron’s blockbuster film. But did Thomas Andrews really meet his
fate in this way? To answer that question, we must first find the origin of this
story.
This well-known portrait of Thomas Andrews comes from the account of
Verandah Café Steward John Stewart. It was quoted in part in Shan Bullock’s
1912 book Thomas Andrews: Shipbuilder. Bullock placed Stewart’s sighting
of Andrews sometime after 2:05 a.m., approximately 15 minutes before
Titanic sank. Interestingly, Bullock himself did not claim this was the last time
Andrews was seen. Yet this is the popular belief that has continued through
the years. Apparently it is the result of simply drawing a line between the
report of Andrews in that location, and Bullock’s statement that the sighting
was after an event which he had placed at 2:05 a.m.
Yet the timing of Stewart’s sighting, as put forward by Bullock, was likely
a guess on that author’s part. No quote from Stewart is provided, giving either
the exact time or an estimate, although it would seem that the steward spotted
Andrews shortly before leaving the ship. All of this is rather dissatisfying
from a scholarly perspective. Yet, the manner in which the witness in question
was rescued should provide some clue as to when the shipbuilder was seen.
Stewart did not elaborate on his method of rescue in the above-mentioned
account. Yet, Able Bodied Seaman Frank Evans may have provided a clue
during his Senate Inquiry testimony. Evans was one of the crewmembers that
returned to the site of the sinking in Boat No. 14 when Fifth Officer Lowe
returned to search for survivors. Evans thought a total of four men were pulled
from the water, two of whom he recognized. One of these was ‘the steward,
young Stewart’.
1
No follow-up questions about ‘Stewart’ were asked, and it has been
assumed that Evans was referring to John Stewart, since he was the only
crewmember aboard with that last name. How familiar Evans – as a member
of the Deck Department – would have been with members of the Victualling
Department is unknown. However both men had previously served on the
Olympic, so it is at least possible that they would have known or recognized
each other. Another question is whether Evans, 27-years-old at the time of the
disaster, would have referred to Stewart, also aged 27 at the time of the
sinking, as ‘young Stewart’.
This has led to speculation by some Titanic researchers that Evans
actually said ‘the steward, young steward’, and that somehow it was mistaken
as ‘Stewart’ in the transcript. How they could have thought he was referring to
a specific crewmember if he indeed said ‘steward’ is unknown, and there is
no definitive proof either way. Colonel Archibald Gracie, in his 1913 book
The Truth About the ‘Titanic’, lists Stewart as having been rescued in No. 14
and quotes Evans as saying that ‘another picked up was named J. Stewart, a
steward’. This wording is not reflected in the existing transcripts of the
inquiry. If Stewart was pulled from the water, then it is possible that he was
aboard the ship until the end and did see Andrews right before the ship sank.
However, is there any evidence that suggests Stewart was rescued in a
boat other than No. 14? During the British Inquiry, Bathroom Steward Samuel
Rule was asked if he knew who took charge of Boat No. 15, the boat he was
rescued in. Rule said that it was a ‘man called Jack Stewart’, and that he was
‘a steward; he was a steward called Stewart’. Rule stated that the man was
still alive, and when asked, stated that he saw him after the sinking, although
not since he had left Southampton the Tuesday prior to testifying.
In response, the Attorney-General stated that he had not heard his name
before. As mentioned previously, Stewart’s name was allegedly brought up in
the previous Senate Inquiry in relation to Boat No. 14, but the commission
appeared unaware of this. This is somewhat odd, since the questioners had
reviewed the statements of the witnesses from that inquiry, and in several
cases, asked for clarification when contradictory statements were given in the
British Inquiry. Both the Commissioner and Attorney-General expressed
interest in seeing Stewart to clear up some questions that they had regarding
Boat No. 15, but for some reason, he was never called to give testimony.
2
It seems probable that Rule, as a fellow steward and a fellow member of
the Victualling Department, would have been more likely to know and
recognize Stewart than Evans would have been. There is also some
corroborating evidence that supports Rule’s assertion that Stewart was
rescued in No. 15 and not pulled from the water. Stewart himself doesn’t
appear to have left a public account stating how he was rescued. However, in
a Titanic documentary, Molly Adams, Stewart’s daughter, stated that her
father ‘came off on the last lifeboat’.
3 So her father told her he was rescued in
a lifeboat, not that he was pulled from the water. Boat No. 15 was the last of
the aft starboard boats lowered away, which provides circumstantial evidence
supporting Rule’s claim that Stewart was in that boat.
In the end, it appears that John Stewart was rescued in Boat No. 15, and
was not one of the men pulled from the water into No. 14. There is no reason
to doubt that Stewart actually saw Thomas Andrews standing alone in the
First Class Smoking Room before he departed the ship. However, this
reassessment of the evidence concerning his rescue, and the conclusion that
the evidence leads us to, does change the commonly accepted timing of their
encounter. This is the case because Boat No. 15 was lowered away around
1:40 a.m., meaning that Stewart’s sighting must have taken place prior to that
time, and not after 2:05 a.m.
This conclusion also leaves open the very real possibility that Stewart
was not the last person to see Thomas Andrews, and that the shipbuilder did
not meet his end staring catatonically into space below deck. In fact, in
Thomas Andrews: Shipbuilder, author Shan Bullock never suggested or
presented the case that this was the final known location of Andrews. Indeed,
he wrote just the opposite. After discussing Stewart’s sighting, Bullock wrote:
But whatever he saw, in that quiet lonely minute, it did not hold or
unman him. Work – work – he must work to the bitter end.
Then Bullock discussed several other very late sightings of Andrews. He
cited an unnamed survivor as saying that they saw Andrews ‘a few minutes
before the end, on the Boat deck, our final and grandest sight of him, throwing
deck chairs overboard to the unfortunates struggling in the water below’.
Interestingly, Bullock also added that another person saw Andrews,
‘bareheaded and carrying a lifebelt, on his way to the bridge perhaps to bid
the Captain goodbye’. Although Bullock placed this sentence before Stewart’s
sighting, he does not give any evidence for placing it in that location. This
single sentence is also interesting in that it mentions him carrying a lifebelt;
Stewart’s sighting also had Andrews with a lifebelt, which at the time was
draped over a nearby chair.
What about Bullock’s placement of this sighting of Andrews moving
forward to the Bridge? It is possible that this sighting was very late in the
disaster, after he threw the deck chairs overboard. Why might this be
suspected? Because Thomas Andrews was reportedly on the Bridge with
Captain Smith just before the ship took its final plunge. This detail comes
from 21-year-old Mess Steward Cecil William N. Fitzpatrick.
4 Fitzpatrick’s
account appeared in two different papers, one of which was extremely
shortened, but the other of which survives intact. He said:
I then went for’w’d on the port side, and I was passing through the
bridge when I saw Capt. Smith speaking to Mr. Andrews, the designer
of the Titanic. I stopped to listen. I was still confident that the ship
was unsinkable, but when I heard Capt. Smith say: ‘We cannot stay any
longer; she is going!’ I fainted against the starboard side of the bridge
entrance.
After some minutes I recovered sufficiently to realize that unless I
got into a boat or swam for it, there would be no chance of being
saved.
I then went to launch one of the collapsible boats which had been
eased down off the top decks on the starboard side [Collapsible A].
We found, when we tried to swing her in the davits, that she was
wedged between the winch of the davits and the spar…
… The next thing I remember was the ship suddenly dipping, and
the waves rushing up and engulfing me. After ten seconds the Titanic
again righted herself, but then I saw that everyone who a minute before
had been attempting to lower away, except myself, had been swept
into the fo’castle head. I saved myself by clinging on to the davit
winch.
5
This sighting places both Captain Smith and Thomas Andrews together on the
Bridge just before the end, since the Captain told Andrews that the ship was
‘going’. This account is very much in harmony with the known movements of
Captain Smith as reported by numerous other survivors, who said that the
Captain returned to the Bridge just minutes or even moments before the end.6
Fitzpatrick was subsequently rescued from Collapsible B by Boat No. 12.
This gives confirmation that he was on board the ship until the end, which
means he could have been in a position to see Andrews in the final moments
before the sinking.
7
Fitzpatrick’s account also lines up very nicely with several other
individuals who said that after the ship made her plunge downward, she
recovered before diving again. Clearly, this account deserves attention. Since
Fitzpatrick’s sighting came just before he assisted at Collapsible A and
jumped into the sea, it places Andrews and Smith on the Bridge together just
moments before 2:15 a.m., when the ship made the ‘slight but definite plunge’
referred to by Second Officer Lightoller.
This newspaper account is further corroborated – and expanded upon – by
a completely different line of evidence: a private letter written by Andrews’
good friend David Galloway to Andrews’ uncle, Lord Pirrie on April 27,
1912. Galloway traveled from New York to Southampton aboard the Lapland,
along with members of the Titanic’s crew who had just given testimony in the
Senate Inquiry. Galloway interviewed the crewmembers to see if they had any
information on his friend’s fate, and he included the reports in the letter to
Lord Pirrie.
Galloway said that an officer, unfortunately unnamed, claimed Andrews
was last seen throwing deck chairs and other objects into the water, and that
‘his chief concern seemed to be the safety of others rather than his own’.
Instantly, the account catches attention… Perhaps this officer was the same
source for Bullock’s conclusion that Andrews was last seen throwing deck
chairs overboard?
Galloway also reported to Pirrie that near the end, a ‘young mess-boy’
saw Andrews and Captain Smith on the Bridge. Both men put on lifebelts, and
then the witness heard Smith say: ‘It’s no use waiting any longer.’ When water
reached the Bridge, both men entered the sea together.
8 While Galloway did
not name the survivor, the only likely candidate is Mess Steward Cecil
Fitzpatrick. No other surviving crewmember fits Galloway’s description of
being both ‘young’ and a ‘mess-boy’.
In the press interview in question, Fitzpatrick does not mention seeing
Andrews go overboard with the Captain, but this is perhaps not surprising.
While Andrews was mentioned in some press accounts following the sinking,
he was not famous with the general public yet, and his fate did not become
legendary until some time after the disaster. Most reporters, as they conducted
their interviews, were clamoring for news about any of the deceased officers,
or regarding the most famous First Class passengers; few of these would have
cared about, or pursued questioning regarding, the fate of someone who was
then a little-known passenger. The published press articles reflect this: front
pages of the papers were literally plastered with headlines and claims about
how Captain Smith and the other officers had died.
If Fitzpatrick was on the starboard side of the Boat Deck, however, one
might wonder: how could he have seen the two men dive from the port side of
the Bridge, the location where many reported Captain Smith had left the ship
as the Bridge became awash. The answer is quite simple: working at
Collapsible A on the forward extremity of the Boat Deck, Fitzpatrick could
easily have seen through the open Bridge and at least a portion of the port side
wing would likely have been visible to him.
We know Fitzpatrick was on the Titanic’s forward Boat Deck late in the
sinking, and in a position to see Smith and Andrews near the end. In addition
to his own account above, there is the account of Second Class Passenger
Lillian Bentham, who was rescued in Lifeboat No. 12. She mentions
Fitzpatrick, by name, as having been pulled into her lifeboat from an
overturned boat.
9 This places Fitzpatrick as one of the survivors aboard
Collapsible B, having been washed overboard at the last, just as he stated in
his own account.
After a careful review of the evidence, then, the age-old tale of Thomas
Andrews meeting his fate in a state of shock in the Smoking Room, as the ship
sank under him, falls by the wayside. It seems to be nothing more than an oftrepeated, if erroneous conclusion based on some very scanty evidence. While
there is no way to know for certain, it appears that Thomas Andrews took
some time in the Smoking Room to gather his thoughts, probably just before
1:40 a.m. Then he continued doing what he had done for much of the
evacuation: assisting the crew, and attempting to save the lives of others. It
appears that he kept this work up till the very end, with little regard for his
own safety, and only left the ship at the last moment along with Captain Smith.
Appendix M: Down With the Ship?
Captain Smith’s Fate
1
Of the unknowns surrounding the sinking of the Titanic, one of the most
tantalizing remains how Captain Smith met his end. Legend holds that the
Captain went down with his ship, and met his end heroically, in a way that any
Edwardian sailor or gentleman would have envied. This legend has been
sustained by portrayals of his death in books and movies, including A Night to
Remember and James Cameron’s Titanic.
Most survivor accounts do not shed any light on Captain Smith’s fate.
Given the small number of survivors who remained onboard the ship until the
end and also survived, this is not at all surprising. When one considers how
few of this already small number of survivors would have been in a position
to see Captain Smith at the end, it is even less so. Those who did broach the
subject often gave conflicting evidence, which adds to the confusion. This
appendix is an attempt to critically and objectively examine the evidence
relating to the Captain’s fate, to see if any conclusions can be reached. Please
note that the spelling in the survivor accounts is retained from the original
documents.
Introduction
The stories and rumors surrounding Captain Smith’s end, as provided by
survivors, are both varied and contradictory. A reporter from the New York
Times noted:
How different were the impressions made on different persons was
illustrated by the many versions, told by witnesses, of how Captain
Smith died …2
The eyewitness accounts and versions of Smith’s end can be divided into four
general categories: 1) death by suicide; 2) staying on the Bridge/going down
with the ship; 3) leaping overboard near the end; and 4) death by drowning or
hypothermia. Each of these versions of the Captain’s end will be examined
individually, then in conjunction to see if any of them are related, particularly
in the case of the latter two versions of his death.
Death By Suicide
Among the most widely circulated rumors concerning Captain Smith’s fate,
following the Carpathia’s arrival in New York, were those to the effect that
he had committed suicide. The papers published headlines such as: ‘Captain
Smith and Chief Engineer Kill Themselves’, and: ‘The Titanic’s Captain Shot
Himself as the Ship Went Down, With Band Playing’.
3 May Birkhead, a
passenger on the Carpathia, wrote a news story in which she reported a
rumor that Captain Smith had shot himself; Carlos Hurd, another Carpathia
passenger, made a similar report.
4 Miss Birkhead did not report the source of
this story, and Hurd stated that surviving crewmembers denied the rumors.
Another person aboard the Carpathia who reported these rumors was Dr J. F.
Kemp, who wrote that one of the last children to leave the Titanic told him
that he saw ‘Captain Smith put a pistol to his head and then fall down’.
5 The
only ‘children’ to leave the ship late enough to have witnessed such a scene
were Jack Thayer and William Carter Jr; however, neither made such a claim
in their own accounts about Captain Smith.
The majority of the stories in the press did not list their sources. Many of
those that were attributed to a specific survivor later proved to be false, or of
questionable reliability. First Class passenger Paul Chevré is a prime
example of this. An account quoted him as saying that he saw Captain Smith
commit suicide.
6 Chevré was rescued in Boat No. 7, the first lifeboat lowered
away; he was furious about the story when he saw it in the papers, and
publicly refuted the whole account.
7 The rumors about the Captain were
widespread enough, however, that Captain Rostron felt the need to issue a
statement refuting them, based on what he had heard from surviving Titanic
crewmembers.
8
Despite all of the stories, little evidence to support them has ever been
uncovered. Numerous accounts do place Captain Smith on the forward area of
the Boat Deck, near the Bridge, shortly before it dipped under. This is where
a suicide is alleged to have taken place.
Yet, the only two accounts which lend anything like support to the tales of
Captain Smith killing himself come from First Class passenger Richard
Norris Williams and Third Class passenger Edward Dorking; both men were
on the ship until the last. Williams said that he and his father saw Captain
Smith near the Bridge at the same time the Boat Deck began to submerge; as
they turned to flee from the approaching water, they heard gunfire from the
direction where the Captain had been.
9 Yet it must be emphasized that
Williams did not turn around, and clearly stated that he did not see what
happened. The second account comes from Dorking; therein, he claimed that
just before he jumped overboard, he saw an officer shoot himself.
10 He
speculated that it may have been the Captain, but was far from certain in this
identification. Dorking’s account also comes from a press interview of
unknown reliability.
Captain Smith was one of the officers who went to the First Officer’s
cabin when the revolvers were distributed at Chief Officer Wilde’s request,
so he probably had the means to commit suicide.
11 However, several reliable
eyewitness accounts, which will be examined later, describe the Captain
jumping overboard near the end; several others even describe seeing him in
the water after the ship sank. When combined with the lack of evidence to
support the rumors of a suicide, these accounts tend to eliminate the
possibility of him having done so.
Captain Smith’s prominent white beard would have made him readily
identifiable, and it is likely that more eyewitnesses would have reported that
he shot himself, if that is actually what happened. An examination of the
eyewitness accounts indicate that most claiming that an officer committed
suicide did not name the officer, which further indicates that the Captain did
not kill himself. This being the case, an important question arises: Why were
there so many stories about Captain Smith having ended his own life? Perhaps
overzealous reporters and editors in the yellow press were responsible, since
they had a tendency to alter eyewitness accounts, in order to make them more
dramatic. Also, since pocket recorders did not exist in 1912, most press
interviews were written down in notes or taken in shorthand. Transcription
errors when the stories went to print were frequent.
Reporters were also very well aware that Titanic’s collision with the
iceberg and subsequent sinking was the second serious accident of his career
in the space of seven months. With the collision between the Olympic and the
Hawke only seven months past, it is very likely that reporters speculated that
Captain Smith would have been despondent after he discovered his ship was
doomed, his career ending in ignominy. When stories that an officer shot
himself began to circulate, they may have had a logical reason to believe
Smith was the one involved, despite the lack of eyewitness evidence
indicating this. It would have been tempting for them to imagine him feeling so
disgraced and anguished about the accident and pending disaster that he shot
himself in order to avoid the embarrassment that a second serious accident,
and the possible loss of his certificate, would bring him and his family if he
survived.
This apparent jump in logic is more understandable when one considers
that several Captains had shot themselves in the years prior to the Titanic
disaster, and for exactly this reason. According to a press article, one was
Captain H. Brunswig. He went to his cabin and shot himself, reportedly out of
fear that he was going to lose his certificate, after his Hamburg-American line
vessel the Prinzessin Victoria Luise ran aground off Port Royal, Jamaica, on
December 16, 1906; another was Captain Giuseppe Paradi, who shot himself
for feelings of responsibility after his Italian steamship Sirio wrecked on
rocks near Hormigas Island on August 2, 1906.
In addition to this, the article in question describes the following Captains
as having lost their certificates as a result of accidents of varying seriousness:
Captain Inman Sealby was dismissed from his position with the White Star
Line after his vessel, the Republic, was rammed by the Lloyd Italiano Line
steamship Florida on January 23, 1909. His ship sank the following night;
Captain Frederick Watkins lost his certificate after his American Line
steamship City of Paris grounded on the British coast; and Captain Le Horn’s
career ended after his Peninsular and Oriental steamship China ran aground in
the Red Sea in 1897.12 This newspaper article provides one possible
explanation of why Captain Smith was rumored to have shot himself;
however, in Smith’s case, these rumors appear to have absolutely no basis in
fact.
Staying on the Bridge/Going Down with the Ship
Rumors that Captain Smith went down with the ship are one of the more
popular images that spring to mind when someone thinks of the Titanic
disaster. This scenario has certainly had more staying power than the rumors
that he shot himself, since they have persisted for more than a century
following his death. But, is there any actual evidence to support the stories?
Before analyzing other survivor accounts, the testimony given by the
Titanic’s surviving officers and crewmembers in the disaster inquiries will be
examined to see if they said anything indicating that Smith went down with his
ship. Not only would crewmembers have been the most likely to recognize the
Captain, but since the accounts given in the inquiries are first-hand, we can be
certain that the words are those actually spoken by the witness. The same
cannot be said regarding press accounts of the day. Some of the more relevant
testimonies that directly relate to the question of whether Captain Smith went
down with his ship include those given by Second Officer Lightoller, Lamp
Trimmer Samuel Hemming, and Saloon Steward Edward Brown.
Second Officer Lightoller gave some relevant testimony in the Senate
Inquiry. The last time that he saw Captain Smith was when he caught a
glimpse of him crossing from the starboard to port side of the Bridge.
13
Unfortunately, Lightoller did not indicate how long before the sinking this
sighting took place. As such, it does not prove or disprove the story about
Smith going down with the ship; all it does prove the he was in the vicinity of
the Bridge when the Second Officer last saw him.
Lamp Trimmer Samuel Hemming assisted with Collapsible A until water
neared the Bridge. Realizing their efforts were hopeless, he crossed over to
the port side and leapt overboard. His testimony is relevant to the question of
what happened to Captain Smith:
Senator Smith: Did you see him [Captain Smith] at any time on the
bridge?
Mr. Hemming: Yes, sir.
Senator Smith: When?
Mr. Hemming: The last time I saw the captain, sir, was just as I was
coming down off the house.
Senator Smith: Just as you came down from the house?
You mean by that the top of the officers’ quarters?
Mr. Hemming: Yes, sir.
Senator Smith: Where this collapsible boat [A] was?
Mr. Hemming: Yes, sir.
Senator Smith: You saw what?
Mr. Hemming: The captain was there, and he sung out: ‘Everyone over
to the starboard side, to keep the ship up as long as possible.’
And then later in the questioning, Hemming indicated that he saw the Captain
about a half hour before leaving the ship, and that Smith was alone at the
time.
14 Hemming’s testimony places the Captain on the Bridge during the
attempted launch of Collapsible A, shortly before the water reached that area
of the ship, washing Collapsibles A and B overboard. His testimony matches
details subsequently given by Steward Edward Brown in his British Inquiry
testimony:
10585. … Whilst you were working down the last collapsible boat
[A] from the top of the officers’ quarters to the deck, did you notice
Captain Smith? – Yes, the Captain came past us while we were trying
to get this boat away with a megaphone in his hand, and he spoke to
us.
10586. What did he say? – He said, ‘Well, boys, do your best for the
women and children, and look out for yourselves.’ He walked on the
bridge.
10587. He then returned to the bridge? – Yes.
10588. And about that moment of time the ship took her last plunge? –
Yes, a very few seconds after that.
15
While working on Collapsible A, Brown saw Captain Smith on the Bridge at
roughly the same time and from the same general location as Hemming. This
was right before the Bridge plunged under. The timing was confirmed by the
account of Steward Alexander Littlejohn, who was ‘a great friend’ of Brown,
indicating that the timing he described was not the result of leading questions.
Brown told his friend the following, which leaves the impression that he
himself believed Captain Smith went down with the ship:
He told me he was washed off the bridge as the forward funnel dipped
and that the captain was on the bridge at the time and said to the other
stewards around him, ‘Do what you can for yourselves boys.’16
There is further corroboration of Smith’s presence on the starboard side near
the Bridge just before the Boat Deck submerged. Fireman Harry Senior
claimed to have seen Captain Smith shortly after helping free Collapsible A
from the roof of the Officers’ Quarters:
He [Senior] went on to describe how the boats were lowered, and
said that after all the ordinary boats had been launched he and others
ascended to the hurricane deck and threw down a number of
collapsible boats. ‘While we were preparing to lower these,’ he went
on, ‘we heard the captain shout “Every man for himself.” I had seen
the captain on the bridge. When he shouted his last command the ship
was sinking fast. I dived over the side, and by good luck I found
myself in the water near one of the collapsible boats. ‘
It had either been thrown or had fallen over the side, and was
floating bottom upwards.’17
Trimmer Eustace Snow was assisting in the effort to launch Collapsible A,
and last saw Captain Smith at this time as well. He claimed that Smith said,
‘[W]ait till the boat takes to the water, then every man for himself.’18 First
Class passenger Richard Norris Williams’ previously-mentioned account of
the disaster provides yet another account placing Captain Smith near the
starboard side of the Bridge right before the Boat Deck submerged. At this
time, he and Williams’ father saw Captain Smith near the Bridge with a
seaman. The seaman went off on an errand, and then there was a curious
noise, and then Williams and his father turned to see water pouring over the
Bridge rail. They immediately began heading aft.
19
When all of the above evidence is taken into account, it provides strong
indication that the Captain was indeed near the starboard side of the Bridge of
the Titanic right before it plunged under. However, none of the witnesses
actually saw him go down with the ship, so other than providing strong
indication of his presence on the Bridge just before the final plunge, no other
conclusion can be drawn from them. There are many accounts from survivors
who claimed to have seen Captain Smith after this, including Fireman Senior,
who stated that he saw him in the water, after having seen him on the Bridge.
These accounts will be examined later in this appendix.
Given the lack of Inquiry testimony that would conclusively prove that
Captain Smith went down with his ship, are there any accounts that support
that claim? Yes, although since they are from press accounts, the reliability of
them is unknown. One of these accounts comes from Greaser Alfred White,
who remained on board the ship until the end. White claimed that sometime
after 1:30 a.m., he was released from the Engine Room to find out how
serious the situation was.
20 White stated that the ship was down alarmingly by
the head, and that he made his way up on deck via a ladder in the ‘escape
funnel’. Sometime after arriving on deck, White headed forward and said that
he ‘found Captain Smith standing on the bridge knee deep in water’. All the
lifeboats were gone, so White headed aft and let himself down into the water
on a set of falls. He was picked up by Boat No. 4.21
It must be noted that
while White gives the impression that Smith went down with the ship, he did
not actually see this happen.
Another survivor who is often cited as having seen Captain Smith go
down with the ship is First Class passenger Robert Daniel. Daniel claimed to
have last seen the Captain standing on the Bridge, shouting through a
megaphone. He also claimed that Smith remained on the Bridge, ‘trying to
make himself heard’, and that he was still there when Daniel last saw him.
22
 It
must be noted that while it has been interpreted that way, Daniel never
actually claimed that he saw Captain Smith go down with the ship. He only
says that the Captain was near the Bridge when he last saw him. According to
other evidence, it is clear that Daniel was nowhere near the Bridge as it
dipped under, and that he would not have been in a position to see what
happened to Captain Smith at the end. Thus, his accounts do not shed any light
on the matter one way or another.
23
One survivor who actually claimed to have witnessed Captain Smith go
down with the ship was First Class passenger and professional card sharp
George Andrew Brereton, who gave accounts using the alias ‘George A.
Braden’, ‘G. A. Brayton’, and the like. Brereton claimed to have leapt
overboard, and to have witnessed the following while being held afloat by his
lifebelt:
I saw Capt. Smith while [I was] in the water. He was standing on the
deck all alone. He was swept down by the water, but got to his feet.
Then, as the boat sank, he was again swept from his feet, and this time
he was drowned.24
Brereton was never in the water, having left the ship in a lifeboat some time
before the sinking. Therefore, he would not have been in any position to see
Captain Smith at the end as claimed.
Ship’s Barber August Weikman was also quoted in a press interview as
saying that he saw Captain Smith go down with his ship:
I was on the upper deck assisting the passengers to the boats. I had a
life belt on, and when the forward part of the ship listed I was washed
overboard by a huge wave. Looking backward, I could see Captain
Smith, who had been standing on the bridge, swimming back to the
place where he had stood, having been washed off the Titanic by the
same wave that had washed me from the ship into the water.
25
In his affidavit for the Senate Inquiry, Weikman did not mention seeing
Captain Smith swimming in the water. It is possible that he omitted these
details, or that the quotes were fabricated by a reporter.
Another survivor, First Class passenger Caroline Brown, was quoted as
saying that the Captain stood on Bridge until water covered the ship, and that
he was offered assistance to get into one of the lifeboats, but he refused.26
Other versions of this account have Mrs Brown claiming that the occupants of
her lifeboat were the ones who offered the Captain assistance. Mrs Brown
had been escorted to Collapsible D by Colonel Archibald Gracie. This boat
left around 2:05 a.m., before water reached the Boat Deck, so she could not
have witnessed this event herself, although it is possible that she was relating
something that another witness told her.
With the apparent lack of reliable accounts supporting the conclusion that
the Captain went down with the ship, we are left with the question of why so
many rumors and press stories assumed that this is what happened. Although
there is strong evidence that Captain Smith was seen near the starboard side
of the Bridge shortly before the end, there is no real evidence to suggest that
he actually went down with her. Part of this question might be answered by
some of the statements Captain Smith made in the years prior to the Titanic
disaster, hinting or indicating that some of the crew would bravely go down
with the ship if they ever faced such a situation:
Dr. Williams, a friend of Capt. Smith of the Titanic, relates a
conversation he had with Capt. Smith when the latter commanded the
Adriatic. … Dr. Williams pointed out the inadequacy of the Adriatic’s
lifeboats, and asked Capt. Smith what would happen if the Adriatic
struck a concealed reef of ice and was badly damaged. Capt. Smith
replied: ‘Some of us would go to the bottom with the ship.’27
And:
Mr. Kempster, managing director of Harland and Wolff, the builders of
the Titanic, stated that before the ship left Belfast Captain Smith was
asked if courage and fearlessness in [the] face of death existed among
seamen as of old. Captain Smith declared if any disaster like that to
Birkenhead happened they would go down as those men went down.
28
Besides Captain Smith’s own statements, there was the overall sense in
Edwardian times that the chivalrous thing for a gentleman to do would be to
go down with a sinking ship rather than be rescued ahead of women and
children. A newspaper article published after the disaster illustrates this
attitude:
The voice of chivalry rang out over the wireless across the water
wastes and the answer to that cry was ‘women and children first.’
Chivalry lives today unselfish and noble and those brave heroes,
actuated by chivalry, that went down with the ship will be raised to
immortality.
29
One reporter wrote that ‘everything connected with the death of Captain Smith
reveals him in the character of one who maintained the best traditions of the
sea’. Another reporter wrote that ‘from the known character of Captain Smith
… it is believed that he went down with the ship, and also other officers’.
30
This quote was given at least a full day prior to the Carpathia reaching New
York, before any actual eyewitness testimony was available to reporters.
When the general public learned of Captain Smith’s death, some who
knew him held similar sentiments. William Jones, a boyhood friend of Smith,
had the following to say about his fate:
Ted Smith passed away just as he would have loved to do. To stand on
the bridge of his vessel and go down with her was characteristic of all
his actions when we were boys together. … I cannot express my
contempt for those who so cowardly reported that he committed
suicide. … Ted Smith commit suicide in the face of danger? His
whole life as I know it, and especially when he and I were boys
together, gives the lie direct to such a report...if any man had dared to
predict face to face with Ted Smith that if at any time he should be
faced with such an emergency … and had suggested that he would take
his life that man would be minus a few teeth before the words were
well out of his mouth.
31
Later, when it became known that several witnesses had last seen Captain
Smith near the Bridge, the attitudes and beliefs about Edwardian gentlemen
may have made it easy for people to picture the charismatic, tough and
popular Captain going down with his ship, despite the lack of actual
eyewitness evidence to bear this out.
Leaping Overboard
If he didn’t go down with his ship, where did Captain Smith go after he was
seen re-entering the Bridge during the attempted launch of Collapsible A on
the starboard side? Aboard the Carpathia, reporter Carlos Hurd had
interviewed several survivors, and his notes were among the first eyewitness
accounts of the disaster to be published after the arrival in New York. He
related the following story, given to him by an unnamed Titanic survivor:
Captain Smith remained on the bridge until just before the ship sank,
leaping only after those on the deck had been washed away.
32
Based on what he had been told by fellow survivors, Second Class passenger
Lawrence Beesley believed that Captain Smith stayed on the Bridge until the
water reached his location, then ‘quietly leapt overboard’.
33
Do any first-hand statements support these assertions? Junior Marconi
Operator Harold Bride was on the port side of the ship right before the Boat
Deck began to submerge. Bride’s report to the Marconi Company of his
experiences sheds some light on Captain Smith’s actions, subsequent to
crossing over from the starboard side of the ship:
Leaving the [wireless] cabin, we climbed down on top of the house
comprising the officers’ quarters and our own, and here I saw the last
of Mr. Phillips, for he disappeared walking aft. I now assisted in
pushing off a collapsible lifeboat, which was on the port side of the
forward funnel, onto the boat deck. Just as the boat fell I noticed
Captain Smith dive from the bridge into the sea. Then followed a
general scramble down on the boat deck, but no sooner had we got
there than the sea washed over. I managed to catch hold of the boat we
had previously fixed up and was swept overboard with her.
34
Bride’s testimony at the American Inquiry agrees with his report to the
Marconi Company. It also expands upon the details in that report, including
his uncertainty of whether the Captain had been wearing a lifebelt:
Mr. Bride: The last I saw of the captain of the Titanic, he went
overboard from the Bridge about, I should think, three minutes
before I left it myself.
Senator Smith: Did he have a life preserver on?
Mr. Bride: I could not say, sir.
Senator Smith: You said in New York the other day that he did not. Do
you want to correct that?
Mr. Bride: Yes, I want to correct it. He had not a life preserver on the
whole of the time when we were working, when he came into the
cabin at frequent intervals. We had not a life preserver on.
Senator Smith: How long was that before the ship sank?
Mr. Bride: That was from the beginning of the catastrophe to the end.35
Unfortunately, Harold Bride was not the most consistent witness, and gave
differing descriptions of how close to the end it was when he helped push
Collapsible B off the roof of the Officers’ Quarters. In his report to the
Marconi Company, he specifically mentioned that he saw Captain Smith jump
overboard at nearly the same time they managed to push Collapsible B down
to the Boat Deck, and his testimony indicates a similar time frame. He also
says that the water had already reached the deck. The ship was listing
approximately 10° to port at the time, so water reached this side of the Boat
Deck before it got to the Boat Deck on the starboard side. Obviously, if Bride
did see Captain Smith jump overboard from the port side of the Bridge, it had
to be after Steward Brown saw him reenter the Bridge from the starboard
side.
However, in his famous press interview, Bride had given a different
timeline of events, and didn’t mention seeing Captain Smith jump overboard.
In that version of the story, Bride stated that after he helped get Collapsible B
down from the roof of the Officers’ Quarters, he returned to the wireless
cabin, and that Captain Smith released Jack Phillips and him from their duty.
He then stated that he looked out from the wireless cabin, saw the Boat Deck
awash, and that Phillips continued sending for ‘ten minutes, or maybe fifteen
minutes’ after this. He claimed that water then entered their cabin. After this,
he said that he and Phillips had a scuffle with a stoker who tried to steal the
former’s lifebelt, and that only then did they exit the cabin. Phillips next
disappeared aft, and the water swept the raft overboard.36
These discrepancies do little to instill confidence that Bride was
accurately remembering the timeline or details of events as they actually
happened. Fortunately, portions of Bride’s account given to the Marconi
Company – which is a first-hand account, and not subject to misinterpretation
or alteration of details by a reporter as the New York Times account may have
been – can be corroborated by Second Officer Lightoller’s accounts. As
detailed previously, Lightoller did not see Captain Smith at the end, although
he was on the scene as Collapsible B was pushed down from the roof of the
Officers’ Quarters, and would have been in a position to confirm the timing of
this event, anchoring in time when Bride may have seen Captain Smith.
Lightoller’s testimony reveals some helpful details:
14035. Had you time to do anything more after you got that collapsible
boat [Collapsible D] afloat? – I called for men to go up on the deck of
the quarters for the collapsible boat up there. The afterend of the boat
was underneath the funnel guy. I told them to swing the afterend up.
There was no time to open her up and cut the lashings adrift. Hemming
was the man with me there, and they then swung her round over the
edge of the coamings to the upper deck, and then let her down on to the
boat deck. That is the last I saw of her for a little while.
14036. There was no time to open her up at all? – No, the water was
then on the boat deck.
37
Lightoller, in his book, gave additional confirmation that water had already
reached the port side of the Boat Deck when Collapsible B was pushed down
from the roof of the Officers’ Quarters:
We had just time to tip the boat [Collapsible B] over, and let her drop
into the water that was now above the boat deck, in the hope that some
few would be able to scramble on to her as she floated off.
38
As Lightoller indicated, Samuel Hemming also helped push Collapsible B off
the roof of the Officers’ Quarters. Hemming testified that after helping
Lightoller launch Collapsible D, he helped push Collapsible B over, before
crossing over to the starboard side to assist at Collapsible A. The Boat Deck
on the starboard side, probably owing to the list to port at the time, was still
dry. Hemming assisted just long enough to help with the falls and see that
‘there was no chance of the boat being cleared away’. It was then that
Hemming said he went to the Bridge and looked over, and saw the water was
‘climbing upon the bridge’ near the starboard side where he was located.39
All of this indicates that as soon as Collapsible B was freed from the roof,
water had already reached the port side of the Boat Deck, just as Bride said in
his Marconi report and indicated in his testimony. This is also when he claims
to have seen Captain Smith dive overboard. The details in Bride’s New York
Times interview do not match the timing as given in Bride’s Marconi report or
testimony, and by the other eyewitnesses who were on the scene.
Given the varying details given by Bride, are there any other accounts
which confirm his story of seeing Captain Smith jump overboard? Second
Class passenger William Mellors had been on the starboard side of the ship
prior to the Boat Deck plunging under, and helped with Collapsible C and the
attempt to launch Collapsible A. Like Steward Brown, Fireman Senior and
the other witnesses at that location, he saw Captain Smith giving orders. His
subsequent account tends to support the details given by Bride:
I was not far from where Captain Smith stood on the bridge, giving
full orders to his men. … He did not shoot himself. He jumped from
the bridge when he had done all he could … [and] his last words
were[:] ‘You have done your duty, boys. Now every man for himself.’
… Then came a grinding noise. … I was hurled into the deep …
waves engulfed me, but I was not drawn towards the ship…40
The wording Mellors used makes it unclear whether he actually saw Captain
Smith jump overboard, or if he was simply repeating something that he had
been told. Mellors was washed overboard from the starboard side of the ship,
and did not cross to the port side in the final moments.
41 However, Smith may
have been visible to Mellors from his vantage point on the starboard side, if
he was standing near the starboard Bridge wing or near the entrance to the
Bridge and looking across to the port side.
Partial corroboration of Mellors’ account comes from Mess Steward
Cecil Fitzpatrick. Fitzpatrick was crossing through the Bridge, and saw
Captain Smith talking with Thomas Andrews. He overheard the Captain say,
‘We cannot stay any longer; she is going!’
42
A friend of Thomas Andrews, David Galloway, sailed from New York to
Southampton on the Lapland with many of Titanic’s surviving crewmembers.
In trying to discover what had happened to his friend, Galloway spoke with
many of the survivors, including ‘a young mess-boy’. Fitzpatrick is the only
crewmember who fits Galloway’s description, and who was aboard the
Titanic that late in the sinking. Galloway wrote that near the end, this ‘messboy’ saw Andrews and Smith on the Bridge. Both men put on lifebelts, and
Smith told Andrews, ‘It’s no use waiting any longer.’ The witness also
recalled that when the Bridge became awash, he saw both Smith and Andrews
enter the water.
43 The evidence and consistency between the details supports
that Galloway’s witness was indeed Fitzpatrick.
Fitzpatrick saw Smith and Andrews donning lifebelts before he went to
help with Collapsible A.
44 Fitzpatrick’s account gives the impression that he
was only working at Collapsible A for a few minutes at most before the Boat
Deck submerged; he said that the ‘next thing I remember’ was the ship dipping
suddenly and waves engulfing him, right after he discussed the attempts to get
Collapsible A into the davits.
45 Steward Brown estimated that Collapsible A
was gotten down from the roof of the Officers’ Quarters ‘about 10 or 12
minutes’ after Collapsible C lowered away.
46 Collapsible C was lowered
away at 2:00 a.m., which means that according to Brown’s estimate,
Collapsible A was down on the Boat Deck by approximately 2:10–2:12 a.m.
This would have left little time to do anything other than push the boat
towards the davits and hook up the falls before the Boat Deck submerged at
2:15 a.m.
Since Collapsible A was already on the deck when Fitzpatrick arrived on
the scene, this places him on the starboard side forward sometime in between
2:10–2:15 a.m., when work commenced on that boat. William Mellors also
worked on this boat, and as such, would have been located near Fitzpatrick
when the Boat Deck submerged. Perhaps not coincidentally, both men claimed
to have seen Captain Smith jump overboard. If Smith did leap from the port
side as Bride indicates, then this serves as potential corroboration of his
version of events, and also confirmation that from their location near the
Bridge, Fitzpatrick and Mellors could have looked across and seen Smith.
Other survivors also claimed that Captain Smith jumped overboard,
although the reliability of these accounts appears to vary widely. Fireman
Harry Senior, as related previously, helped free Collapsible A from the roof
of the Officers’ Quarters, and had been on hand to hear Captain Smith give his
last orders to the men on the starboard side as he stood near the Bridge. A
different press account claimed that after Senior jumped overboard and
reached the upturned Collapsible B, ‘Captain Smith jumped into the sea from
the promenade deck of the Titanic with an infant clutched tenderly in his
arms.’47 The story that Captain Smith attempted to save a child, as well as
possible sightings of him in the water following the sinking, will be examined
in detail later. This press account does not give an actual quote from Senior;
in Senior’s other accounts where he is quoted in depth, he does not mention
seeing Smith leap overboard, although he did claim to see the Captain in the
water. It is possible that he guessed that Smith leapt overboard, rather than
actually having witnessed it.
Another crew member who allegedly saw Captain Smith jump from the
ship was Trimmer James McGann. McGann claimed that the Captain and he
tried to save two children who were near the Bridge as the water reached the
Boat Deck. McGann’s account places him on the port side during the
attempted launch of Collapsible B, at the same time and location where Bride
claimed Captain Smith jumped overboard:
I had gone to the bridge deck to assist in lowering a collapsible boat.
The water was then coming over the bridge, and we were unable to
launch the boat properly. It was overturned and was used as a liferaft.
… He [Captain Smith] turned to the men lowering the boat and
shouted ‘Well, boys, it’s every man for himself.’ He then took one of
the children standing by him on the bridge and jumped into the sea.
48
First Class passenger Mrs George Widener claimed to have witnessed the
following:
I went on deck and was put into a life boat. As the boat pulled away
from the Titanic I saw one of the officers shoot himself in the head,
and a few minutes later saw Capt. Smith jump from the bridge into the
sea.
49
Another press article seems to suggest that Mrs Widener may not have
witnessed these events for herself, but was only of the opinion that it
happened because of information she heard from someone else.
50 The first
interview may be an extrapolation of her words by a reporter. Mrs Widener
was rescued in Boat No. 4, which was lowered away around 1:50 a.m. This
boat was close to the ship when it sank, so conceivably she could have
witnessed events unfolding on the deck. However, since no reliable
statements from others known to have been rescued in No. 4 have been found
to corroborate her account, it seems highly unlikely, particularly given the dim
Boat Deck lighting and the fact that she was not right there on the deck to
witness such events.
Someone calling himself ‘Quartermaster J.H. Moody’ gave accounts in the
papers following the disaster, and claimed to have been the crewmember who
was at the helm when the Titanic struck the iceberg. This would mean that
unless the entire account was fabricated by a reporter, it must have been given
by Quartermaster Robert Hichens, who was at the helm when the accident
occurred. The only other person in the Wheelhouse then, Sixth Officer James
Moody, perished in the disaster. ‘Quartermaster Moody’ gave sensationalized
details about the disaster, and claimed that Captain Smith was on the Bridge
until the last and ‘leaped into the sea after the decks had been washed
away’.
51 Given the sensational details found in his accounts, and that the real
identity of the alleged eyewitness cannot be ascertained, little weight can be
given to his statements. If Quartermaster Hichens gave the account, it is very
unlikely he could have seen Captain Smith at the end, since he left the ship
early in the sinking, in Boat No. 6. This boat was lowered away at 1:10 a.m.,
and according to Hichens, was approximately a mile away when the ship
sank.
Another passenger who claimed to have witnessed Captain Smith jump
overboard was Second Class passenger Charles Williams. Williams gave
several press interviews after the disaster. In one account, he was quoted as
saying that he ‘saw the captain holding the bridge after the ship had sunk to the
level of the sea. Then he went overboard’.
52
In other accounts, Williams said
that he was saved in one of the collapsible lifeboats, and also claimed to have
seen Captain Smith in the water, but he never said that he saw him jump
overboard. During the Senate Inquiry, Fifth Officer Lowe testified that
Williams was one of the men he took aboard Boat No. 14 to help row.
53 Boat
No. 14 was lowered away around 1:25 a.m., long before the Boat Deck
submerged, making it extremely unlikely that Williams could have seen
Captain Smith as the Bridge dipped under.
Given all of the information examined above, it seems likely that after
giving final orders to the men working on Collapsible A, Captain Smith
crossed over to the port side of the Boat Deck. Steward Brown and others
saw him near the Bridge or saw him re-enter the Bridge from the starboard
side during the attempts to launch Collapsible A. Based on the accounts of
Harold Bride, Mellors, Fitzpatrick, and McGann, it seems likely that Captain
Smith re-emerged on the port side of the Boat Deck, and gave final orders to
the men working there.
Shortly after this, Collapsible B was pushed off the roof of the Officers’
Quarters and landed upside down on the Boat Deck. Due to the port list, water
had just begun to reach the port side of the Boat Deck, either from coming
over the Bridge rail, or from coming up the stairway down to A Deck. The
eyewitness accounts strongly suggest that with nothing left to do, Captain
Smith did not go down with his ship, but rather, turned and jumped overboard.
He likely did so with Thomas Andrews.
Unfortunately, due to inconsistent details and blatantly falsified or
fabricated accounts, the exact circumstances and details are far from clear.
However, the bulk of evidence does suggest that the myth that the Captain
went down with his ship has no basis in fact, and that in all probability, he
jumped overboard from the Bridge.
Sightings in the Water?
If Captain Smith did indeed jump overboard from the Bridge, what happened
to him? Did any survivors see him in the water following those final chaotic
moments on the Boat Deck? Several accounts of Captain Smith being seen in
the water circulated in the press immediately following the Carpathia’s
arrival in New York. During an interview, D. W. McMillan, the brother of
First Class passenger Elisabeth W. Robert, summarized a letter that his sister
had written:
My sister, Georgette [Madill] and Miss [Elisabeth] Allen were taken
off in one of the last boats with the fourth officer in charge, following
his being commanded by Captain Smith to take charge of the boat.
There was room for about two or three more persons in the boat and
Captain Smith called for the boat to come back. The officer ordered
the boat turned, but as they started back they saw the stern of the
Titanic rising in the air, and didn’t dare to go near for fear it was
going to sink. Shortly afterward the boat went down before them and
they say the shrieks of the steerage passengers were awful and heart
rending. Captain Smith went down with the ship and came up again,
but sank before they could reach him with the boat.
54
Fourth Officer Joseph Boxhall was rescued in Boat No. 2, which was
launched around 1:45 a.m. During the Inquiries or in known private letters,
none of the survivors in this lifeboat mentioned seeing Captain Smith in the
water. It is possible that McMillan’s sister had been mentioning something
that she hadn’t witnessed herself, but was instead told by a fellow survivor.
Unfortunately, the actual text of the letter is not provided in the article.
Lookout George Hogg was another survivor who supposedly stated that he
saw Captain Smith in the water. Hogg was rescued in Boat No. 7, which was
the first lifeboat lowered away, around 12:40 a.m. He was quoted as saying
the following:
After launching the boat [No. 7], we rowed away about 200 yards.
When we rowed back again towards the steamship an upturned boat
with several men clinging to it drifted across to our bow. I noticed
Capt. Smith clinging to it. He looked much exhausted. Just then the
efforts of two men clinging to the boat cut off my view of the captain.
When the range was clear again the captain was missing.
55
In the Senate Inquiry, Hogg claimed that the crew in Boat No. 7 pulled around
for some time after the sinking, but found no survivors, and then rowed away.
He did not mention seeing Captain Smith in the water, and existing evidence
indicates that No. 7 never came near the upturned Collapsible B during the
night. This makes the entire account questionable, although it is possible that
Hogg was simply relating something he had been told by a fellow survivor,
and that the reporter or editor altered this or mistook it to mean that Hogg
himself had seen it. One compelling detail is that he specifically mentions the
Captain clinging to Collapsible B. Additional reliable evidence, which will
be examined later, suggests that Smith may indeed have been sighted near that
lifeboat.
First Class passenger Mrs Ruth Dodge was another survivor quoted as
saying that she saw Captain Smith in the water:
Then I saw a man who I am sure was Captain Smith. He was being
pushed onto a life raft. He flung his arms about and struggled like a
mad man. It was easy to see he did not want to go. But the men who
pushed him [probably the remaining ship’s officers] insisted and at
length got him onto the raft. He looked wildly about for a moment,
waving his arms in despair and supplication. Then he leaped off the
raft into the ice-caked sea which closed over his head forever.
56
Mrs Dodge and her son were rescued in Boat No. 5, which was lowered
around 12:45 a.m. She would have been too far away from the ship at the end
to see Captain Smith. Mrs Dodge’s husband, Dr Washington Dodge, gave an
address about the Titanic disaster at the Commonwealth Club in San
Francisco on May 11, 1912. During the address, Dodge addressed some of the
purported press interviews attributed to he and his wife:
My wife had never given an interview, and had made none of the
statements attributed to her. With one exception, all of the interviews
attributed to me were wholly unfounded.
Apparently, the entire interview with Mrs Dodge was wrongly attributed to
her, or was fabricated out of rumors the reporters had heard.
Another dramatic, and perhaps equally questionable account, was told by
Second Class passenger Charles Williams. As mentioned earlier, Williams
claimed in some accounts that he had seen Captain Smith dive overboard; he
also claimed to have stood knee-deep in water on a collapsible lifeboat all
night, despite the fact that he was actually taken in Boat No. 14 by Fifth
Officer Lowe to help row. In this version of events, Williams allegedly stated
the following about Captain Smith’s fate, although no direct quotes from him
were provided:
Charles Williams … was equally positive that he saw the captain
swimming in the water with the child in his arms, and afterwards saw
him pass the infant into a small boat which a few minutes before had
picked Williams up after he jumped overboard. ‘What happened to
First Officer Murdock?’ Williams said the Captain asked. He was told
that the officer had shot himself, and then, Williams says, Capt. Smith
pushed himself away from the lifeboat, freed the life belt which
supported him, and dropped out of sight. He never rose to the surface,
though the lifeboat lingered many minutes over the spot.
57
Boat No. 14 left Titanic at 1:25 a.m., and Williams would not have been close
enough to the scene to see Captain Smith at the end. One of Williams’ friends,
George E. Standing, repeated this tale to a reporter of the New York World,
and it later appeared in British newspapers such as the Daily Sketch.58 Many
details of Williams’ accounts are inconsistent and can be proven false. Of
note, Williams repeated the story that Captain Smith saved a child, so he may
have been repeating rumors that he had heard, and that this was embellished in
the printed version. In any event, little credence can be given to Williams’
accounts as they appeared in the papers.
Fireman Frederick Harris supposedly told a reporter that he ‘saw the
captain jump into the water and grasp a child, which he placed on one of the
rafts, of which there were all too few. He did not see the captain
afterwards.’59 Harris was one of the men transferred out of Boat No. 14 by
Fifth Officer Lowe during the night, and therefore he probably did not see this
for himself. No actual quote from Harris is provided in the article. The
description attributed to Harris does not indicate that this event occurred at
No. 14. None of the surviving crewmembers from this lifeboat who testified
in the inquiries described seeing the Captain in the water.
Carpathia passenger Fred Beachler claimed that he was told the
following by an informant whom he considered to be reliable, since the
source was ‘an officer of the Titanic’:
I also learn on the same reliable authority, verified by others, that
Captain Smith … was in the water with a child in his arms, which he
succeeded in placing in one of the boats. He was begged to come
aboard himself, but refused and turned back as though to aid others,
and was not seen again.
60
Beachler did not reveal the identity of the officer who allegedly told him this
information, so the accuracy of his claims cannot be determined. None of
Titanic’s surviving officers ever went on record as saying they knew anything
definitive about Captain Smith’s fate. Able Bodied Seaman George McGough
allegedly repeated some of the same rumors as Beachler in a press interview:
Both Captain Smith and Junior Chief Officer Murdoch were now
together on the bridge, the water being up to their armpits. The next I
saw of Captain Smith was in the water holding a child in his arms. He
swam to the raft on which was Second Officer Lightoller and gave the
child to the mate. That was the last. He and the ship went down…61
This account is somewhat suspect, as McGough was rescued aboard Boat No.
9, which was lowered away around 1:30 a.m. Therefore, he would not have
been in a position to see Captain Smith at the end. However, it is possible that
McGough was repeating a story or rumors that he had heard. The quote is
interesting because it repeats the rumor that Captain Smith attempted to save a
baby, as allegedly reported by Harry Senior, James McGann, Beachler, and
others. It expands upon this by inferring that the lifeboat which he supposedly
swam to was the same one Second Officer Lightoller was saved on,
Collapsible B. Lightoller himself never claimed to have seen Captain Smith in
the water, much less to have been handed a baby by him. With this in mind, is
there any credible information to suggest that Captain Smith actually reached
Collapsible B after the sinking?
Second Class passenger Charlotte Collyer claimed that she had been told
that Captain Smith reached one of the collapsibles after this sinking, although
she doesn’t specify Collapsible B:
I was told afterwards by more than one trustworthy person that
Captain E.J. Smith of the Titanic was washed against a collapsible
boat and held on to it for a few moments. A member of the crew
assured me that he tried to pull the Captain on board … he shook his
head, cast himself off, and sank out of sight.
62
Collyer did not name the crewmembers who told her this story. Captain
Arthur Henry Rostron of the Carpathia, in issuing a statement denying the
rumors that Smith had committed suicide, also claimed that the Captain had
reached Collapsible B:
I have it from the lips of members of the crew who tried to save his
life that he did not commit suicide … he was washed from the bridge
… some of his men caught him … and landed him safely on the edge
of a lifeboat, but he tumbled back into the ocean and went down. He
had been too weakened by hard knocks while being tossed about the
sinking Titanic to hold on to anything. The buffeting he encountered on
the wrecked ship undoubtedly had dazed him and left him in no
condition to exert even his remaining strength.
63
Unfortunately, Captain Rostron did not name the survivors who told him of
Captain Smith’s fate. It is known that he spoke with Titanic’s surviving
officers onboard the Carpathia, so it is possible that one of them relayed this
information to him, although this is just speculation. He could have heard the
story from any number of surviving crewmembers. If the information related
to Captain Rostron is accurate, it suggests that Captain Smith may have
approached Collapsible B, but was so weakened by the cold water or injuries
sustained during the final plunge and breakup of the ship, that he did not
survive. Saloon Steward Arthur McMicken suggested just such a scenario in a
press interview:
The Captain was seen not far from where the Titanic went down. He
wore oilskins, which weighed him down, and he seemed so exhausted
he could barely keep afloat.
64
McMicken was rescued in Boat No. 11, which was lowered away around
1:35 a.m. Nobody in his lifeboat reported seeing Captain Smith in the water,
which makes it unlikely that he saw this for himself. It was probably based on
information related to him by another source.
Did any of the men who took refuge aboard the upturned Collapsible B
claim to see Captain Smith approach their lifeboat? Saloon Steward Thomas
Whiteley, rescued aboard Collapsible B, claimed to have seen Captain Smith
save a baby by placing it ‘in one of the lifeboats crowded with people’,
before pushing away.
65 However, Whiteley’s statements do not seem
consistent with Collapsible B, since he does not indicate that the lifeboat was
overturned, and he mentions several women being in the lifeboat. No women
were saved aboard Collapsible B. First Class passenger Jack Thayer had the
following to say in his account of the disaster, which provides some possible
confirmation of Captain Smith being sighted at Collapsible B:
We prayed and sang hymns. A great many of the men seemed to know
each other intimately. Questions and answers were called around-who
was on board, and who was lost, or what they had been seen doing?
One call that came around was, ‘Is the Chief aboard?’ Whether they
mean Mr. Wilde, the Chief Officer, or the Chief Engineer, or Captain
Smith, I do not know. I do know that one of the circular life rings from
the bridge was there when we got off in the morning. It may be that
Captain Smith was on board with us for a while. Nobody knew where
the ‘Chief’ was.
66
While Thayer did not actually see Captain Smith, his account verifies that
some survivors discussed the possibility of Captain Smith being seen at
Collapsible B as the events of that night were playing out. His mention of the
life ring from the Bridge is significant for reasons that will be discussed later.
In his book, Colonel Archibald Gracie provided useful information about
Captain Smith:
After we had left the danger zone in the vicinity of the wreck,
conversation between us first developed, and I heard the men aft of me
discussing the fate of the Captain. At least two of them, according to
their statements made at the time, had seen him on this craft of ours
shortly after it was floated from the ship. In the interviews already
referred to Harry Senior, the fireman, referring to the same overturned
boat, said: ‘The Captain had been able to reach this boat. They had
pulled him on, but he slipped off again.’ Still another witness, the
entrée cook of the Titanic, J. Maynard, who was on our boat,
corroborates what I heard said at the time about the inability of the
Captain to keep his hold on the boat. From several sources, I have the
information about the falling of the funnel, the splash of which swept
from the upturned boat several who were first clinging thereto, and
among the number possibly was the Captain.
67
Gracie’s comments are interesting, because they confirm that on the actual
night of the sinking, some of the survivors who were on Collapsible B
believed that Captain Smith had reached their lifeboat. Thayer and his
accounts also indicate that these stories did not originate in the press after the
fact. Gracie’s mention of ‘J. Maynard’, who was actually Entrée Cook Isaac
Maynard, being aboard Collapsible B takes on added significance when one
considers the following rumor that reporter Carlos Hurd was told by
survivors onboard the Carpathia:
It is also related that when a cook later sought to pull him [Captain
Smith] aboard a lifeboat he exclaimed ‘Let me go,’ and jerking away,
went down.
68
It is likely that this unnamed cook was Maynard, given the similarities to what
Gracie reports Maynard as saying. Chief Baker Charles Joughin testified that
Maynard was aboard Collapsible B with him.
69
As mentioned previously, a press article alleged that Fireman Harry
Senior had seen Captain Smith jump overboard with a baby near the end. This
same article claimed the following:
It only took a few strokes to bring him [Smith] to the upturned life
boat, where a dozen hands were stretched out to take the little child
from his arms and drag him to safety. ‘Captain Smith was dragged on
the upturned boat,’ said the fireman, ‘he had on a life buoy and a life
preserver. He clung there a moment and then he slid off again. For a
second time he was dragged from the icy water. Then he took off his
life preserver, tossed the life buoy on the inky waters, and slipped into
the water again with the words: ‘I will follow the ship.” ’70
Harry Senior repeated this story with less detail to the British press.
71 Of
note, Senior claims that Captain Smith had a lifebelt and a ‘life buoy’ with
him when he approached Collapsible B. If Senior was referring to a life ring
when he said ‘life buoy’, this takes on added significance, since Jack Thayer
claimed that a life ring from the vicinity of the Bridge was spotted alongside
Collapsible B in the morning.
As detailed earlier, Trimmer James McGann claimed to have seen Captain
Smith jump overboard from the port side of the Boat Deck with a child as
water reached their location. McGann claimed that he tried to help another
child himself:
Taking refuge on the bridge of the ill fated Titanic, two little children
remained by the side of Capt. Smith until that portion of the big ship
had been swept by water. Survivors of the crew who went down with
the Titanic, but were saved by clinging to an overturned lifeboat,
today told of their gallant commander’s efforts to save the life of one
of the children. He died a sailor’s death and the little girl who had
entrusted her life to his care died with him. ‘He held the little girl
under one arm,’ said James McGann, a fireman, ‘as he jumped into the
sea and endeavored to reach the nearest lifeboat with the child. I took
the other child into my arms as I was swept from the bridge deck.
When I was plunged into the cold water I was compelled to release
my hold on the child, and I am satisfied the same thing happened to
Capt. Smith.’
Elsewhere in the article, McGann stated the following:
He endeavored to reach the overturned boat, but did not succeed. That
was the last I saw of Capt. Smith.
72
McGann was saved by clinging to Collapsible B. He suggests that Captain
Smith was unsuccessful at saving the child he had allegedly jumped
overboard with. McGann believed that Smith lost his grip on the child in the
cold water, just as McGann did with the child he tried to save. If there really
was an attempt to save a child, this scenario is at least somewhat plausible.
The same thing happened to Scullion John Collins, who claimed that he had a
baby washed from his arms by the wave produced as the Boat Deck of Titanic
dipped under.
73
One of the biggest questions that crops up over these stories that Captain
Smith attempted to save a child, besides their seemingly melodramatic
elements, are that if he did, why isn’t there more eyewitness evidence to back
up the claims? Surely, if a crying baby had been handed to one of the men
aboard Collapsible B, more of the survivors would have mentioned this after
the fact. It would have been hard to miss. Many of the survivors from this
collapsible did give accounts later, and few outside of Senior and McGann
claimed that Captain Smith attempted to save a baby. Several other survivors
claimed that Captain Smith attempted to save a child, but their statements are
either questionable or second-hand, because they were not aboard the
upturned boat. It is possible that Senior and McGann themselves were the
source of these rumors. Newspapers did print pictures of Entrée Cook Isaac
Maynard, claiming that he was the ‘steward who took the baby from Captain
Smith’s arms’.
74
Maynard was aboard Collapsible B, but no definitive statements from him
that would confirm or deny the allegations about the child have been
discovered. Doreen Bartram, Isaac Maynard’s niece, reported that ‘mother
used to say Uncle Ike saved the baby from the captain’s arms as the Titanic
sank’, and that ‘mum was always very proud of him. … She always used to
talk about him’. While this does not prove anything either way, it does
indicate that the tradition of Maynard being handed a baby by Captain Smith
exists in his family.
75
One grim possibility is that if a child was rescued, it was either
unconscious, or never made it to Collapsible B alive. McGann suggests this in
his account, where he assumed that Captain Smith lost his grip on the child in
the water. One story attributed to Able Bodied Seaman Albert Horswill states
that ‘Horswell [sic] saw Captain Smith swimming about with the dead body
of a child in his arms’.
76 Horswill was one of the twelve survivors who were
rescued in Boat No. 1, which was lowered away at 1:05 a.m. He wasn’t near
enough to the ship when it sank to see this for himself. Horswill testified in
the British Inquiry, and did not mention this story. If the quotes attributed to
him are actually his, then he had to be relating information that he heard from
someone else.
Another press account related a similar story about the Captain to
‘crewman Cyril Handy’ and ‘Steward Charles Collins’. Neither of these
names appear on the crew list, although it is possible that ‘Handy’ could have
been Chief Second Class Steward John Hardy, and that ‘Charles Collins’
could have been Scullion John Collins. Yet neither of these men ever made
any statements like those attributed to the similarly-named crewmembers in
the account. According to the story, Captain Smith was seen swimming in the
water with a woman and child. The woman and child were both taken aboard
a lifeboat, but the baby died within a few minutes and was put overboard.
Captain Smith himself refused to be rescued. The woman who had been
swimming with the Captain was said to be an unmarried second class
passenger. ‘Collins’ claimed that she passed out, but was revived in the
morning. When he questioned her, she said that she knew nothing about the
child.77
Even though this account is highly detailed, the problems with it are
obvious. The names of the alleged eyewitnesses do not appear on the crew
list. Even if the men to whom the quotes were attributed were actually John
Hardy and John Collins, the story is still problematic. Hardy was rescued in
Collapsible D, launched at 2:05 a.m. There is no record of a woman from
second class being pulled from the water by Collapsible D. Collins was
rescued aboard Collapsible B, but did not mention seeing Captain Smith or
the baby in his detailed Senate Inquiry testimony. There is no record of a
woman being saved aboard this lifeboat either. The details in the press
account indicate that the lifeboat Smith was allegedly seen at was a regular
lifeboat, filled with women and children. Given the problems with the
account, it is likely that it was based on rumors, or fabricated entirely, and
cannot be relied upon.
An account which seems more reliable may provide stronger evidence as
to why so few of the survivors mentioned Captain Smith rescuing a child, if
this actually happened. Second Class passenger Elizabeth Nye gave a press
interview in which she reported speaking with a crewmember who had been
rescued on Collapsible B. She said that one of the men ‘who was on the raft’
told her that ‘the girl whom the Captain saved died half an hour later’.
78
While one shudders to consider the possibility, if Captain Smith did
attempt to save a child, it may have been unconscious from the cold, and
expired shortly after being handed to Maynard, or another crewmember on
Collapsible B. This, combined with the darkness and lack of lighting that
night, would provide an explanation for why more survivors on Collapsible B
did not mention the event, if it indeed happened. Those who did witness it
may have felt it was too grim to mention or discuss after the fact.
Another possibility is that Senior or McGann mistook Captain Smith’s
attempts to hand a lifebelt or other object to the men on Collapsible B as an
attempt to save a baby; yet this explanation does not adequately explain the
detailed descriptions attributed to these two men, particularly in McGann’s
case. Harold Bride did not see Captain Smith with a child, or holding an
object when he leapt overboard, which is at odds with these stories.
However, it is possible that Bride might not have been able to see this from
his viewing angle, as it was presumably above and behind him.
At least one Titanic researcher has suggested that Captain Smith was
actually seen handing a bag containing the ship’s log to one of the men on
Collapsible B, and that in the darkness, this was mistaken for him attempting
to save a child. This scenario is not backed up by any eyewitness evidence at
all, and seems to be nothing more than far-fetched speculation, since no
crewmembers ever claimed that the log was saved. It is equally likely that
while Captain Smith was seen in the water, that he never attempted to save a
child at all, but that these stories can be attributed to rumors that began on the
Carpathia, and later exploded in the press. As one anonymous Titanic
crewmember told the press in New York, he had been given $250 for ‘as fine
a cock-and-bull story as a sailor ever spun’, so it can be established that some
false stories were being spread.79
One would have more confidence in the stories attributed to Senior and
McGann, if first-hand correspondence or depositions mentioning the story,
rather than press accounts attributed to these two men, were discovered.
However, in the case of Senior, there is reason to believe that he actually did
tell the story about Captain Smith, and that it did not originate in the press.
Weeks after the disaster and following his original press interviews, Senior
gave a separate interview in which he repeated the story about seeing Captain
Smith and the baby.
80 While this does not prove that the story is true, it does
give strong indication that the story originated with Senior himself, rather than
with an overzealous reporter.
Despite the doubt about the authenticity of the stories of Captain Smith
saving a child, there is considerable evidence that he was sighted at
Collapsible B, as has already been demonstrated. Additional confirmation
that an officer, possibly Captain Smith, reached Collapsible B comes from
Third Class passenger Edward Dorking, who was saved aboard that boat.
Dorking was not familiar with the officers of the Titanic and did not know
them by sight, as demonstrated by his claims to have witnessed an officer who
‘may have been the captain or it may not’ shoot himself in the final moments
aboard the ship. Dorking relates that after he jumped overboard, and as he
was swimming to Collapsible B, a ‘man who wore an officer’s uniform’ was
swimming behind him in the water. He claimed that the following happened
after they reached the collapsible:
The officer was so exhausted he became unconscious. In ten minutes
after he struggled over the side of the raft and was safe he was dead.81
Since Dorking apparently could not recognize the officers by sight, it is
possible that this man was Captain Smith; this, then, could agree with the
other evidence that Smith reached Collapsible B before dying.
One final eyewitness provides convincing first-hand evidence that Captain
Smith may have reached Collapsible B. Fireman Walter Hurst was rescued on
the upturned boat. Author Walter Lord wrote the following:
Another swimmer kept cheering them on: ‘Good boy! Good lads!’ He
had the voice of authority and never climbed aboard. Even though they
were dangerously overcrowded, Walter Hurst couldn’t resist holding
out an oar. But the man was too far gone. An oar touched him, he spun
about like a cork and was silent. To this day Hurst thinks it was
Captain Smith.
82
In his actual correspondence with Walter Lord in the 1950s, Hurst provided
more detail, denying that Captain Smith actually climbed aboard Collapsible
B, but confirming his long-standing thoughts that Captain Smith was alongside
them in the water:
I can state definitively that Captain Smith did not meet the raft but I
always had the idea he was the man that spoke to us in the water but I
could not be sure … there was one man quite near us he had the voice
of authority kept cheering us [‘Good Boy Good Lads’]. I reached the
oar out to help him but he was too far gone as it touched him he turned
about like a cork and was silent.
83
Owing to the darkness and difficulty in seeing at the time, Hurst was not
certain that the man in the water was Captain Smith, although he maintained
throughout the rest of his life that it was. Third Class passenger Eugene Daly,
also rescued aboard Collapsible B, recalled this same man:
One man was alongside and asked if he could get upon it. We told him
that if he did, we would all go down. His reply was[:] ‘God Bless
You. Goodbye.’84
Saloon Steward Arthur McMicken related a story that he had heard which
indicated that Captain Smith approached a raft, but that ‘it was seen that to
take the Captain into the boat would endanger the lives of all aboard’.
McMicken was told that Smith did not climb aboard, and that several men did
reach out for him, but it was too late.
85 This corresponds well with Hurst’s
recollections. Colonel Archibald Gracie recalled this same swimmer in the
water, as did several other survivors aboard Collapsible B:
There was one transcendent piece of heroism that will remain fixed in
my memory as the most sublime and coolest exhibition of courage and
cheerful resignation of fate and fearlessness of death. This was when a
reluctant refusal of assistance met with ringing response in the deep
manly voice of a powerful man, who, in his extremity, replied: ‘All
right boys; good luck and God bless you.’ I have often wished that the
identity of this hero might be established and an individual tribute to
his memory preserved.
He was not an acquaintance of mine, for the tones of his voice
would have enabled me to recognize him.
86
Colonel Gracie was not sure who the man in the water was, and from both
Hurst and his accounts, it can be inferred that it was difficult to see at the
time, since it was very dark. Gracie offered no opinion as to whether he
believed this swimmer was Captain Smith. He was probably unaware that
others felt it was, since he did not address this question in his book.
Compounding the issue is that Gracie made it clear that he did not know
which officer he was seeing and when, until ‘he afterwards learned’ their
identities.
Despite this, Gracie would have been able to identify Captain Smith by
sight, not just because of Smith’s distinctive beard, but also because he was
present at the Sunday church service in the Dining Saloon which Captain
Smith presided over. It is difficult to tell how familiar Gracie would have
been with Smith’s voice from hearing it at that service, but this is a factor
worth considering. Additionally, Second Officer Lightoller did not report
hearing Smith’s voice while aboard Collapsible B, although it is possible that
he could have missed it between the noise of survivors in the water, and those
struggling aboard the collapsible.
Conclusions
When all of the evidence relating to Captain Smith’s fate is examined
critically and objectively, it is easy to see why the mystery surrounding his
death has endured for an entire century. Many survivors claimed to have
knowledge of how the Captain died, and their stories range from plausible to
completely absurd.87 Only by sifting through and examining the evidence as a
whole can some conclusions be drawn.
One of the most widely published stories following the disaster, and
perhaps the most forgotten, was that Captain Smith committed suicide. There
is virtually no evidence to indicate that this actually occurred. Many accounts
claiming that he shot himself had no eyewitness names attached to them. All
but one or two of those that do can be proven to be false or at least secondhand, and are therefore questionable. Accounts do place Captain Smith near
the Bridge before the Boat Deck plunged under, near where an officer suicide,
if it occurred, may have happened. Beyond that, there is nothing to suggest that
Captain Smith met his end by his own hand. In the years prior to the Titanic
disaster, several Captains had lost their certificates due to accidents involving
their ships, and several Captains shot themselves after their vessels
foundered. Once rumors that an officer shot himself began circulating in the
wake of the disaster, it is easy to see why some may have assumed Captain
Smith was the officer to do so.
The story that Captain Smith stuck to the Bridge and bravely went down
with his ship is one of the more iconic images associated with the disaster,
and has been perpetuated by film portrayals and books about the sinking. The
evidence that he was near the Bridge at the end is solid. Several surviving
crewmembers stated that they last saw Captain Smith giving orders to the men
trying to launch Collapsible A, on the starboard side of the Boat Deck, during
the attempted launch of that boat. Some indicate that Smith re-entered the
Bridge shortly before water reached the deck, but no credible accounts state
that they actually saw him go down with the ship.
Even before survivor accounts were available to the press, newspapers
were already speculating that Captain Smith went down with his ship. During
the Edwardian era, this would have been considered an extremely honorable
and heroic death. Captain Smith himself allegedly made statements hinting that
he would go down with his ship if he was ever confronted with a disaster.
These factors help explain why so many assumed this is how the Captain met
his end, even though the eyewitness evidence does not prove it. If Smith wore
a lifebelt as some eyewitnesses claim, it is difficult to imagine that it was his
intent to remain aboard.
Several other eyewitnesses indicate that after being seen on the starboard
side, Captain Smith crossed over to the port side of the Boat Deck near the
Bridge, at the same time as the attempt to free Collapsible B from the roof of
the Officers’ Quarters was taking place. Accounts suggest that as the Boat
Deck began to submerge a few minutes later, the Captain turned and jumped
into the ocean. The evidence conflicts as to the exact details, but strongly
indicates that Smith did not go down with the ship. Multiple witnesses claim
that the Captain was later seen in the water. Some of these accounts are
second hand, and many are false or inaccurate, because the eyewitness
claiming to have seen the events was too far away from the ship at the time, or
were not rescued in the way that they claimed.
Several survivors who were rescued by clinging to the upturned
Collapsible B claimed that Captain Smith reached their lifeboat shortly after
the sinking. Some of them claimed that Smith’s last act was to save a baby,
although the details vary and the truth behind the tale, if any, is unknown. All
that can be said is that at least one of the survivors aboard Collapsible B
repeatedly claimed that the Captain saved a child, indicating that the story
was not invented by a reporter, although it was certainly spread by the press.
Those who claim that Smith reached this lifeboat state that the Captain was
either injured during the sinking, or simply too exhausted to be saved, or that
there wasn’t enough room for him to board the collapsible. Descriptions from
other survivors rescued indicate that during the night, those onboard
Collapsible B discussed the possibility that Captain Smith had been aboard,
as the events were playing out. The stories that he reached this collapsible did
not originate after the fact. Colonel Archibald Gracie and Jack Thayer verify
this, as do other survivors.
When all is said and done, it appears that Captain Smith did not commit
suicide, or go down with the ship as legend claims. The most credible
evidence suggests that he leapt overboard, and at some point shortly after the
sinking, reached Collapsible B. Starlight would have been the only light
source that eyewitnesses could use to see; while we know from the testimony
of survivors that identification of others was possible that night, it made
positive identifications difficult.
Colonel Gracie speculated that if Captain Smith had been aboard the
upturned collapsible, he may have been washed off during the collapse of the
forward funnel. It is possible that the Captain was either killed or injured at
this time. If he wasn’t, he would have been extremely weakened or rendered
unconscious after 10–20 minutes in the 28° water, perhaps less if he had been
hurt during the breakup or sinking. Fireman Hurst maintained throughout his
life that Captain Smith did indeed come alongside Collapsible B, encouraging
the men aboard. By the time Hurst tried to assist the man he believed was the
Captain, he had already succumbed to hypothermia. Jack Thayer saw a life
ring from the Bridge floating near Collapsible B in the morning. If Captain
Smith had indeed been alongside Collapsible B, this life ring may have
marked the very spot where he met his end.88
Appendix N: The Breakup
For over seventy-three years, the generally accepted wisdom was that the
Titanic sank with her hull completely intact. This was recounted in numerous
books written on the subject, and was seen in film portrayals such as the 1953
film Titanic, 1958’s A Night to Remember, and 1979’s S.O.S. Titanic. The
typical picture painted of the sinking was that the ship swung up to a nearly
vertical position; that a loud noise sounded, caused by the crashing of every
movable object aboard the ship – including machinery, engines and boilers –
down to the bow; that the boilers most likely tore their way through the bow
plates of the ship; that, once relieved of this weight, the ship eased back
slightly in the water, and then sank at that angle with a growing momentum. As
Walter Lord wrote in The Night Lives On, this view ‘became accepted as
gospel. To question it amounted to heresy’. But then there came a tremendous
surprise.
In 1985, when Dr Robert Ballard discovered the wreck on the sea floor,
he and his team were shocked to find that the stern portion of the ship had
broken away from the bow; the distance between the two halves suggested
that the break had occurred at, or on, the surface. Yet, this left the lingering
question: shouldn’t there have been survivors who described a breakup if it
had happened on the surface? In point of fact, there were survivor accounts
that did clearly describe a breakup before the final plunge… and not just a
few. There were a great many of them.
But if there really were a large number of survivor accounts that
mentioned a breakup, how did the accepted version of history, cherished for
three quarters of a century, become that of a non-break scenario? Well,
Second Officer Lightoller and Third Officer Pitman – considered experts in
their profession – were so forceful in their statements at the inquiries that
those conducting the proceedings, none of whom were seafaring men, decided
to take their word for it.
At the British Inquiry, for example, witness after witness had clearly
alluded to the ship breaking up – or at least to the stern settling back toward
an even keel, clear evidence of a breakup – before she took her final plunge.
However, when Lightoller took the stand, he denied all such testimony and
asserted that the ship sank intact. At that point, Lord Mersey was reminded by
the Solicitor-General: ‘Your Lordship knows a lot of Witnesses have said
their impression was the afterpart settled on the water.’
Mersey concurred, saying: ‘I have heard that over and over again.’
Turning to Lightoller, Mersey asked: ‘That you say is not true?’
Lightoller responded: ‘That is not true, My Lord. I was watching her
keenly the whole time.’
Lord Mersey’s response was telling. ‘I had difficulty in realising how it
could possibly be that the afterpart of the ship righted itself for a moment.’ So,
because Mersey and others of the committee had trouble understanding the
testimony regarding a breakup, they had great difficulty in grasping the
mechanics involved in what they were hearing from eyewitnesses. When
Lightoller – the senior surviving officer of the ship and thus someone who
carried great clout with the committee – categorically denied all such reports,
they were rather pre-disposed to accept his version of the sinking.
1
The conclusion that the ship had sunk intact was published with the court’s
findings and was subsequently disseminated to the public at large. That
conclusion was further reinforced by two of the earliest publications rushed to
press after the disaster. Penned by survivors Archibald Gracie and Lawrence
Beesley, both authors were clear that the ship had sunk in one piece – even
though Gracie was under water and had not personally seen the sinking.
Lightoller later penned a written account of the disaster, in which he again
reiterated that the ship had not broken.
The picture that Lightoller, Pitman, Gracie and Beesley painted all seemed
logical, coherent, and well thought-out. Yet, it was completely and wholly
inaccurate. In not paying enough attention to the majority of survivor
evidence, researchers, authors, historians – and thus the public who relied
upon their conclusions – were all duped into believing that things happened
differently than they really had.
Survivor Accounts – What They Said They Saw
So, having identified how an inaccurate conclusion came to be commonly
accepted, we are left with the question: how many of the survivor accounts
available to historians today stated that the ship broke? How many said the
ship sank intact? How many referred to events which, without exactly
mentioning a breakup, in retrospect gave clear evidence of such? How many
simply hadn’t seen the event, or didn’t refer at all to specifics in their
accounts?
After extensive research, we have studied a total of 149 survivors’
statements – nearly 21% of the 712 survivors.
2 A good number of these
descriptions came from the formal inquiries. Others were accounts given by
survivors specifically for publication in newspapers; most of these went to
press within the first weeks or months after the disaster. Still others have
turned up over the years in the form of personal letters written by survivors to
family or friends, and many of these were written very shortly after the
disaster.
Of these 149 survivors, nine specifically said they did not see the ship
sink or did not know what had happened. A further 51 eyewitnesses simply
did not say whether they saw the ship break or not; among these were
accounts that very briefly mentioned the ship sinking but gave no specifics, as
well as accounts that gave only general movements of the ship in the final
moments. A further 24 eyewitnesses spoke of frightening sounds, one or more
explosions, what they assumed were bulkheads giving way, and more – all
without specifically mentioning a breakup. One of these eyewitnesses spoke
of an explosion that ripped out the ship’s bottom, but did not specifically
mention a breakup.3 After tallying the figures, it turns out that 84 of the 149
accounts studied came from survivors who either had not seen the ship sink,
or who mentioned no specifics on the subject. However, none of the survivors
we have placed in this category said anything that would specifically exclude
a breakup at the surface.
Of the remaining 65 accounts studied, 53 survivors specifically said that
the ship broke or split as it was sinking, and many of these provided further
details in their accounts. Sometimes more than one account was available
from these survivors, and the consistency between them is very encouraging.
Two further women, who were in Boat No. 4, did not see a break-up
firsthand. However, as the ship was sinking, they did hear a person in their
lifeboat say, ‘She’s broken’; in their account, they reported that statement, and
at the same time they did not disagree with it.
4 Another survivor, young Frank
Goldsmith, Jr, recalled someone in his lifeboat yelling: ‘Oh, she’s going to
float!’
5 While not a specific statement of a break, this exclamation was almost
certainly a reference to the gyrations of the ship during and immediately after
the breakup, which were referred to by at least some of the fifty-three other
eyewitnesses who described the ship rending. For that reason, this statement
should also be counted as second-hand evidence of a breakup.
A further survivor who gave a direct account shortly after the sinking,
Sidney Collett, said that he heard terrible noises as the ship sank, and said that
they ‘may have been bursting of the boilers or the vessel breaking in two. I
don’t know’.
6 Although he was unsure of which of these two explanations was
true, he did not dismiss the concept of a breakup as impossible. Since we
today know that none of the boilers exploded, this leaves Collett’s account
sounding more like – in retrospect, at least – it was describing a breakup. One
other survivor, Karen Abelseth, said that the ship resurfaced after it sank,
overturned twice, and then sank again.
7 Although initially coming off as a
rather bizarre description of those final minutes, one has to allow for the
possibility that she was describing in a very non-technical manner at least
some of the motions of the ship during and after the breakup.
In summary, eighty-four persons who gave accounts did not say anything
for or against a breakup; another fifty-three specifically said the ship broke
up, three heard statements as the ship sank referring to a breakup, another
allowed for the possibility, and still one more described something unusual
that may have been referring to the way the ship moved after the breakup.
Compared with all of these numbers, only seven of the 149 eyewitness
accounts that we studied stated for certain that the ship did not break, but
rather sank intact. These individuals were Second Officer Charles Lightoller
– in his inquiry testimony and in his later book and other accounts; Third
Officer Herbert Pitman in his inquiry testimony; Trimmer Thomas Dillon at
the British Inquiry; First Class Passenger Hugh Woolner at the U.S. Inquiry;
First Class Passenger Elisabeth Allen;
8 First Class Passenger Caroline
Bonnell;
9 and Second Class Passenger Lawrence Beesley. They represent less
than five per cent of the total.
10
It is clear that the number of persons who
stated emphatically that the ship sank intact were by far in the minority.
11
It is
unfortunate that for many years, the majority of survivor accounts were
ignored and historians were thus led to a spurious explanation of the ship’s
sinking, one that was only challenged when presented with hard evidence in
the form of twisted, rent steel.
Cinematic Depictions
Today, people are most familiar with the depiction of the breakup from the
James Cameron film Titanic of 1997. This portrayal was the first big-screen
depiction of those horrible moments during the ship’s end, and is certainly the
best known. It also looked tremendously real – much more so than previous
silver-screen portrayals where the ‘ship’ was obviously a miniature. In the
1997 film, the ship’s bow plunges and her stern rises to a visible angle of
about 40–42°.
12 As the power fails, the shell plating begins to bulge outward,
the ship’s structure gives way cleanly at the upper decks just behind the No. 3
funnel, and the ship splits down the side shell plating to the keel.
Unrestrained, the stern crashes mightily back into the sea, sending out a
tremendous wave as it does.
13 Still connected to the flooded bow by the keel,
the stern is pulled back upright as the bow slides away. The keel then
detaches, and the stern is left poised vertically, pausing before sliding under
the sea with building momentum.
This illustration was done aboard the Carpathia by L. D. Skidmore, a passenger of that vessel.
Although purportedly based upon Jack Thayer’s eyewitness recollections, it is obvious that the
liner did not break in this manner.
The final sinking sequences, showing the breakup and sinking, were
achieved using a 7 1/2–ton 1/8-scale model of the stern half of the liner.
Placed in a large tank, the model was then set at a 45° angle and mounted on a
rig so that when a primary hydraulic pin was pulled, the stern half would be
allowed to simply drop back into the water. To ensure that the model would
break in the appropriate places, decks and interior miniatures were prescored; a slight twist was even engineered into the drop so that the ship would
not break entirely symmetrically. In the area where the break was set to occur,
aluminum hull plates were installed along the impending break line, to
simulate tearing and shearing stresses on the hull plating for scale effect.
Within the model, a mechanism was also installed that would begin to bulge
the hull outwards at the same time the decks began to give way. Artificially
bulging the hull outwards in this manner was included to show that the bottom
of the ship was pushing up as the vessel was breaking – something that could
not otherwise be seen since the bottom of the hull was underwater at the time.
From this review, it can be seen that certain elements of the model’s behavior
– and thus the depiction in the film – could easily have departed from the
actual physics of the breakup and sinking.
14
So the lingering question remains: silver-screen depictions aside, how did
the breakup actually play out, technically speaking?
Forensic Investigations
– The Good, the Challenges, and the Unknown
True nuts and bolts investigators – real ‘rivet counters’ in the form of
historians, enthusiasts, and even marine forensic experts – would like nothing
better than to be able to do a thorough forensic analysis of the wreck. Closely
connected with a physical on-site forensic investigation would be another –
and tremendously powerful – modern engineering tool: the computer. In
modern engineering programs, programmers can recreate three-dimensional
representations of the Titanic in digital form. Then, harnessing the numbercrunching power of computers, strong or weak areas of the Titanic’s hull, the
locations of stress-concentrations under various load scenarios, and areas of
the vessel where structural failures were most likely to take place under
certain situations can all be quickly identified. However, each of these unique
modern tools is susceptible to its own Achilles’ heels.
For example, a forensic analysis on the wreck itself might have been easy
if, when the wreck was discovered, there were just two large sections and
those two components fit together at a seam in the middle. However, that
simply is not the case. Instead, there is a large amount of material missing
from the two major sections. This list includes a length of double bottom from
the aft end of Boiler Room No. 2 through the forward section of the
Reciprocating Engine Room; it also includes, at the Boat Deck level,
everything from the casing for the No. 3 funnel all the way aft to the area
around the No. 4 funnel. While the tear at the aft end of the bow seemed to be
clean and nearly vertical in nature, from keel to Boat Deck, the stern section
showed a much more destructive pattern. There, the damage expands aft as it
ascends from the keel and double bottom. Most of the missing material from
between the perimeters of the two major sections of ship was spread
throughout a vast debris field on the seafloor, between the two halves of the
wreck. This included the five single-ended boilers from Boiler Room No. 1,
which had originally been attached to the now missing segments of double
bottom.
Still, some may object that forensic investigations of wrecks such as that
of TWA Flight 800 have been performed successfully, turning up evidence that
has most likely pinpointed the cause of the disaster. Unfortunately, comparing
these to similar investigations on the wreck of the Titanic would be like
comparing apples to oranges. The wreckage of TWA Flight 800 rested at a
depth of between 115 and 130 feet, and was accessible to divers. After an
exhausting effort in limited and sometimes nil visibility, over 95% of the
original plane was recovered. Brought back to a leased hanger on Long
Island, New York, the small pieces were reconstructed on a wire frame until
the pertinent portions of the original airplane’s shredded form looked more or
less complete again. Investigators were then able to do a detailed, in person,
and up-close examination of the wreckage – without significant time
restraints. Their findings then led them to conclusions on the process that led
to the plane’s demise.
15
However, in Titanic’s case, the wreck lies in over 12,000 feet of water.
The major portions of the wreck are completely unrecoverable, and are
completely inaccessible to all but a handful of deep-diving submersibles. And
whereas TWA Flight 800 had been resting in the sea for only a very short
time, Titanic had been suffering from the effects of deterioration and decay for
three-quarters of a century before any photographic record of her remains
could be made. Without being able to recover the major portions of the ship’s
hull, an on-bottom investigation is the only alternative, and it is one fraught
with all sorts of complications. Without being able to study each piece closeup in good lighting for extended periods of time, it is nearly impossible to
identify where each piece of wreckage, large or small, came from – something
crucial to good forensic examination.
Even on the larger bow and stern hull segments, the investigation is by no
means simple. On the stern, the hull is literally shredded, with vast portions of
hull plating peeled away from the hull and twisted out of kilter. At the stern of
the bow section, in the area of the First Class Lounge, decks were pancaked
sharply down and bits of side plating are also twisted out of place. Finally,
the clock is always running against on-site investigations – dive-time is
limited to what the submersibles and their human occupants can withstand,
and expensive expedition time is limited by funding.
This begs the all-important question: of the damage visible on the wreck
and debris pieces today, what of that damage was sustained in the breakup and
sinking, and what of it was introduced into the wreckage during the descent
and impact with the bottom, permanently tainting any forensic investigation?
Naturally, with all of these complications – including the post-break
damage that was done to the wreck during descent to, and impact with, the sea
floor – any team must be extremely cautious and careful in proceeding with a
forensic investigation. In the first place, researchers must go into the
investigation with a fresh mind, looking for evidence to lead to conclusions
instead of looking for evidence to support a pre-existing theory. Beyond that,
their conclusions should ideally be verifiable through another form of
evidence and, where it is not, it should not contradict other known and
reliable evidence.
Computer Recreations as an Investigative Tool
The second modern-day forensic tool, computer-based recreations of the
Titanic, can also fall prey to weaknesses. Foremost among these is a term that
has been used in the computer world for decades: ‘GIGO’. This acronym
stands for the phrase ‘Garbage In, Garbage Out’. The meaning is that the
results obtained through computer studies are only as good as the information
programmed into them. In order to identify stresses and weaknesses within the
hull, the recreation must be an exact – or nearly exact – representation of the
Titanic’s original physical form. Where differences from the original are built
into the model, calculations must be made to show whether those differences
might taint the findings.
Unfortunately, while the basics of her construction are well documented,
certain details of Titanic’s structure are still unknown or questionable, and
more information is always coming to light on points both minor and major.
Plans used must be accurate to the Titanic, not her sister ship Olympic, since
there were a number of alterations incorporated into the Titanic from her
sister ship.
To take but one example, on Titanic, a crew staircase that did originally
exist on Olympic just astern of the No. 3 funnel uptake, amidships, and which
ran from the Promenade Deck to E Deck, was altered on Titanic.
16 The
openings in the decks were enlarged in their transverse direction rather late in
the Titanic’s fitting out, widened by a foot. The staircase was also extended
until it ran up to Titanic’s Boat Deck. The alteration, while small in and of
itself, must be considered in any computer models because it was within the
general area of the breakup, and was built directly adjacent to the large funnel
uptake and ventilation shafts. Just astern of this area, there were also large
deck openings for the aft First Class Grand Staircase. While the upper levels
of that staircase were contained within the superstructure – and thus did not
take up the strain of the hull as it worked in a seaway or under the hogging
stresses it suffered that night – the well of that staircase did pass through the
plating of the strength deck, B Deck, before the staircase itself terminated on
C Deck. In other known cases of structural failure in ocean liners, it was not a
single opening in the deck which produced structural weakness, but rather the
interaction between several openings which were in close proximity. So we
can see how even minor alterations in a vital area of the ship, if not factored
into a computer model, could cause a change from reality when stress
tolerances of that entire region are being calculated.
Beyond being accurate to Titanic’s finished form as we know it, there
would be an additional level of authenticity that one would want to account
for, whenever possible, taking into account a margin of error for the unknown.
The main questions would be: did the ship’s strength in the area under scrutiny
match, exceed, or fall short of design tolerances? For example, were rivets in
one portion of the hull under study driven in hydraulically, or by hand? The
strength of the joint could be affected by this difference. Additionally, what
was the likely slag content and thus the tensile strength of those particular
rivets? How did any and all of such potential differences, though each might
seem minor, ‘add up’? Could they materially affect the entire model and
resulting calculations, and if so, by how much? Finally, does the computer
model encompass enough area of the ship’s form to identify a starting point for
the fractures, or is it possible that the area being studied is too small?
Without delving into such minutiae, there are larger and more basic
aspects of the ship’s design where a close approximation to reality would
probably provide a ‘good enough’ result in computer modeling, albeit with a
margin of error. But in computer modeling, everything always comes down to
an accurate representation of the ship’s form, strengths and weaknesses in the
area of the break. At a remove of a century, with some original archival
material still unavailable to all researchers or missing altogether, there are
certain lingering questions about the details. As a result, any strength and
weakness calculations made from a computer must always be treated with at
least some level of suspicion. As with physical forensic investigations, if the
results obtained fly in the face of other evidence, or do not make a great deal
of sense, then it’s time to go back to the drawing board.
Survivor Accounts as an Investigative Tool
The third line of investigative research has to do with a careful analysis of
what survivors said they saw. As researchers previously discovered, ignoring
survivor accounts – even those that might initially seem preposterous – can be
a disastrous pitfall. Even so, survivor accounts are far from infallible.
Personal perception, faulty memories, emotional reaction to life-threatening
situations, exaggeration, or outright dishonesty can quickly throw a monkey
wrench into the works of an investigation relying solely on first-hand
accounts.
For example, while the majority said that the ship broke, a very few said
with certainty that it did not. Still others mentioned great explosions, horrible
noises, or gyrations of the ship without mentioning a break. So what should be
believed? Putting together the pieces of the general picture painted by the
survivors is fraught with problems. Quite often, such survivor accounts were
not given exactly chronologically, or were given in the course of a questionand-answer session at one of the inquiries, where the subject changed back
and forth and can be difficult to follow. So misreading an account, or not
reading an entire account, can prove to be its own quagmire.
Terminology that was used at the time, but is little understood today, can
pose a problem; even the background of the witness – were they individuals
familiar with technological structures and general principles of physics, or
were they not of a technical mind? – should be taken into account wherever
possible. As with both previous forms of investigation, it is vitally important
to follow evidence to a conclusion, rather than to start with a theory and look
for evidence to support it. Finally, only an investigation that uses all of the
tools available to researchers today and arrives at a conclusion that is best
supported by a preponderance – or overwhelming majority – of evidence can
be considered a viable conclusion.
The Investigation Begins
Thus it is time for us to become a twenty-first century maritime equivalent of
Sherlock Holmes. We must interview eyewitnesses – in this instance, since all
survivors of the Titanic disaster have passed away – through the use of any
and all existing accounts. These can be gleaned from first-hand interviews
made with the survivors over the years for documentaries and what-not; they
can also be taken from letters by the survivors to others; finally, newspapers –
both in 1912 and in the years since – have carried a great number of survivor
stories, and must be carefully searched for clues. However, one must be very
careful in using newspaper accounts to make sure that the survivor’s
statements are clear and hold up under close scrutiny; the most desirable use
direct quotations, and are not paraphrased statements made by the writer.
Whatever adds up to the majority should be followed, and then compared,
with physical forensic and computer modeled investigations to ensure
harmony before any conclusions can be drawn.
Our investigation must begin at a point before the actual break witnessed
by survivors. Based upon the most detailed analysis of the sinking from 11:40
p.m. to 2:15 a.m., certain details about the ship’s position in the water can be
clearly ascertained, giving us an excellent starting point. At about 2:05 a.m.,
the ship was about 7° down by the head with an approximate 10° list to port.
The port forward corner of the Promenade Deck bulwark was close to
slipping beneath the waves at the time; simultaneously, Collapsible D was
being launched from the port side, and First Class passengers Steffansson and
Woolner were about to leap into the boat. The ship was continuing to increase
her forward trim. Her apparent flotation pivot point was approximately in line
with the forward edge of her No. 4 funnel. Everything forward of that point
was moving down, while everything aft of that point was moving up.17
Although the ship had settled slowly since the collision, the more deeply
the ship sank into the sea, the faster she was beginning to slip away. Over the
next ten minutes, the ship’s trim seems to have increased from 7° to about 10°,
while also maintaining her list to port. As water was coming up on the port
Boat Deck, the starboard side of the deck was still above the surface of the
sea. Collapsible B, having landed on the port Boat Deck upside-down, began
to float free. On the starboard side, there was a frenzy of activity around
Collapsible A, in an attempt to get it to the falls from Boat No. 1; alas, time
had run out.
The ‘Slight But Definite Plunge’
Now that the stage is set, it is time to consider what eyewitnesses said about
the moments which immediately followed:18
Joseph Scarrott, AB: She was sinking by the head. … Very slow it
appeared to be. As the water seemed to get above the bridge she
increased her rate of going down … When the port bow light [the red
port side light] disappeared she seemed to go faster.
19
Emily Ryerson, First Class passenger: I … turned to see the great
ship take a plunge toward the bow…20
William Ward, Saloon Steward: She went very gradually for a while
… She did not appear to be going fast, and I was … still of the
opinion she would float … [Then] she gave a kind of sudden lurch
forward …21
Alexander Littlejohn, Saloon Steward: We watched her like this for
some time, and then suddenly she gave a plunge forward …22
Anne Caton, Turkish Bath Attendant: … [She] appeared to be
settling rapidly, with the bows and bridge completely under water.
23
Second Officer Lightoller: We had just time to tip the boat
[Collapsible B] over, and let her drop into the water that was now
above the boat deck … Hemming and I then … went over to the
starboard side…
Just then the ship took a slight but definite plunge – probably a
bulkhead went – and the sea came rolling up in a wave, over the steelfronted bridge, along the deck below us, washing the people back in a
dreadful, huddled mass. Those that didn’t disappear under the water
right away, instinctively started to clamber up that part of the deck still
out of the water, and work their way towards the stern, which was
rising steadily out of the water as the bow went down. A few of the
more agile leapt up on top of the officers’ quarters where Hemming
and I were at the moment … turning to the fore part of the bridge, I
took a header.
24
Jack Thayer, First Class passenger: [Milton Long] and I stood by
the davits of one of the boats that had left [on the starboard side] …
just a little aft of the Captain’s Bridge.
The list to port had been growing greater all the time.
… I got a sight on a rope between the davits and a star and noticed
that she was gradually sinking. About this time she straightened up on
an even keel and started to go down fairly fast …25
William Mellors, Second Class passenger: We were trying to fix up
a collapsible boat [Boat A] when she gave the first signs of going
under. There seemed to be a tremble run through the whole of the ship
and the next thing we heard were loud reports inside which I think
were the water-tight doors giving way and before you could say Jack
Robinson there seemed to be mountains of water rushing through the
doors, and I was swept away from where I was right against the
collapsible boat, and I simply clung on for all I was worth, whilst all
this was going on she was going under water … when suddenly her
nose on which I was seemed to suddenly rise from underneath the
water and I and a few more that were close by cut the ropes that held
the boat to the falls.
26
Cecil William Fitzpatrick, Mess Steward: I then went to launch one
of the collapsible boats [Boat A] … The next thing I remember was
the ship suddenly dipping, and the waves rushing up and engulfing me.
After ten seconds the Titanic again righted herself, but then I saw that
everyone who a minute before had been attempting to lower away,
except myself, had been swept into the fo’castle head. I saved myself
by clinging on to the davit winch.
27
This and following two images:The various angles that the Titanic reached during her sinking.

Here we see a close consensus of survivor testimony. Just at the point that the
port boat deck was becoming awash, the ship ‘trembled’, ‘lurched’, and
‘plunged’ under the surface, swamping the forward Boat Deck. The exact
cause of this plunge forward is unknown. One likely possibility is that a
bulkhead – perhaps not even one that was meant to be watertight – had
collapsed or overtopped down in the bowels of the ship, and the sudden shift
changed the vessel’s center of gravity, driving the bow down. Lightoller
suggested a potential explanation along those lines, and it still seems to be the
most likely cause for the sudden shift.
Whatever caused the plunge, the effect on the deck was immediate and
rapid: everyone forward, just behind the Bridge on the port and starboard
sides, and on the roof of the Officers’ Quarters, was washed off the deck.
Moments later, however, it is reported that the bow recovered slightly,
bobbing back up just a little. What caused this effect? At the time, the ship
was balanced like a see-saw, with buoyant stern sections being counteracted
by flooded bow sections. It seems likely that the water flowing into the
newly-flooded area – which had caused the slight plunge – also shifted the
ship’s center of gravity slightly aft as it moved. The ship then temporarily
found her equilibrium, recovering very slightly before the sheer amount of
water flooding her internal spaces took back over and resumed the downward
thrust of her forward end.28
In the meanwhile, from numerous lines of
evidence, a large crowd of people on the Boat Deck turned to rush aft for the
imagined safety of the stern.
But time was fast slipping away. When the bow began to dive again, it did
so with gusto. Let’s pick up the survivor testimony once again:
Charles Joughin, Chief Baker: I went to the deck pantry [probably
the Lounge Deck Pantry, in the vicinity of the No. 3 funnel on A Deck],
and while I was in there I thought I would take a drink of water, and
while I was getting the drink of water I heard a kind of crash as if
something had buckled, as if part of the ship had buckled, and then I
heard a rush overhead … It was not an explosion or anything like that.
It was like as if the iron was parting.
29
Colonel Archibald Gracie, First Class passenger: Clinch Smith and
I instantly saw that we could make no progress ahead, and with the
water following us behind over the deck, we were in a desperate
place. I can never forget the exact point on the ship where he and I
were located, viz., at the opening of the angle made by the walls of the
officers’ house and only a short distance abaft the Titanic’s forward
‘expansion joint.’ Clinch Smith was immediately on my left, nearer the
apex of the angle, and our backs were turned toward the ship’s rail
and the sea. Looking up toward the roof of the officers’ house I saw a
man to the right of me and above lying on his stomach on the roof, and
I promptly followed. The efforts of both of us failed … As I came
down, the water struck my right side. I crouched down into it
preparatory to jumping with it, and rose as if on the crest of a wave on
the seashore … I was able to reach the roof and the iron railing that is
along the edge of it, and pulled myself over on top of the officers’
house on my stomach near the base of the second funnel…
… My holding on to the iron railing just when I did prevented my
being knocked unconscious. I pulled myself over on the roof on my
stomach, but before I could get to my feet I was in a whirlpool of
water, swirling round and round, as I still tried to cling to the railing
as the ship plunged to the depths below. Down, down, I went: it
seemed a great distance. There was a very noticeable pressure upon
my ears …30
Charlotte Collyer, Second Class passenger: I shall never forget the
terrible beauty of the Titanic at that moment. She was tilted forward,
head down, with her first funnel partly under water. To me she looked
like an enormous glow worm, for she was alight from the rising water
line clear to the stern – electric lights blazing in every cabin on all the
decks and lights at her mast heads …31
Caroline Bonnell, First Class passenger: After a while when we
were a considerable distance away, a whole deck of lights, the lowest
deck, was suddenly snuffed out. At the same time the mast light
dropped a little further down in the star pointed sky. After this the
tragedy moved with a relentless swiftness. Deck by deck we watched
the lights go out as the boat dropped lower and lower into the sea.
At last but four rows of lights were left …32
Lawrence Beesley, Second Class passenger: She slowly tilted
straight on end with the stern vertically upwards …33
[She] tilted
slowly up, revolving apparently about a center of gravity just astern of
amidships …34
Eugene Daly, Third Class passenger: Her stern went up and she
gradually sunk forward. Her stern stuck up high.
35
Joseph Scarrott, AB: As the water got above the bridge she started to
go down faster … This part of the ship [the stern] was right up in the
air. You could see her propeller right clear, and you could see
underneath the keel; you could see part of her keel …36
George Symons, Lookout: [Her] forecastle head was well under
water then… You could see her starboard sidelight …, and her stern
was well up in the air … [You] could not see her keel … You could
just see the propellers … I stood and watched it till I heard two sharp
explosions in the ship … Then she suddenly took a top cant, her stern
came well out of the water then …37
John Poingdestre, AB: … [The] propeller and everything was quite
clear.
38
Emily Ryerson, First Class passenger: Then suddenly, when we still
seemed very near, we saw the ship was sinking rapidly. I … turned to
see the great ship take a plunge toward the bow, and two forward
funnels seemed to lean…39
Jack Thayer, First Class passenger: I came up facing the ship … I
was trying to get away from the ship. I looked back and the second
funnel fell and missed me by about ten yards. This funnel … made a
tremendous additional wash and suction. I was drawn down again.
40
Charles Lightoller, Second Officer: The forward funnel was still
there – all the funnels were above water … [when] I first came up [to
the surface] … After the [forward] funnel fell there was some little
time elapsed. I do not know exactly what came or went, but the next
thing I remember I was alongside this collapsible boat again, and there
were about half a dozen standing on it. I climbed on it, and then turned
my attention to the ship. The third if not the second funnel was still
visible, certainly the third funnel was still visible. The stern was then
clear of the water … and she was gradually raising her stern out of the
water. Even at that time I think the propellers were clear of the water.
… Only the forward [funnel had broken away, sic]. I am not sure
whether [the second one] was below water or not … [The] second
funnel was immersed.
Well, I daresay [that the stern must have been very well up in the
air]; it would be. [And the propellers all visible, yes] clear of the
water. That is my impression … [Some] part of the [third funnel was
visible]. As a matter of fact, I am rather under the impression that the
whole of the third funnel was visible.
41
George Crowe, Saloon Steward: After getting clear of the ship the
lights were still burning very bright, but as we got away she seemed to
go lower and lower, and she almost stood up perpendicular …42
Arthur Bright, Quartermaster: All at once she seemed to go up on
end … [Subsequently asked by Senator Bourne, ‘The ship went down
by her bow first and you could see the stern, and see the keel on the
stern, could you?’ Bright responded:] Yes, sir.
43
John Podesta, Fireman: Then all of a sudden, she swerved and her
bow went under, her stern rose up in the air.
44
Henry Etches, Bedroom Steward: She seemed to raise once as
though she was going to take a violent dive …45
Alfred Crawford, Bedroom Steward: We saw her at a distance … It
seemed as if her bow was going down first … We saw all the lights
going out on the forward part of her [and still burning on the after part]
… There was a good bit of the stern part out of water … [she] seemed
all clear right from amidships to aft.
46
Edward Buley, AB: First of all you could see her propellers and
everything. Her rudder was clear out of the water.
47
Major Arthur Peuchen, First Class passenger: I kept my eyes
watching the lights, as long as possible [from about five-eighths of a
mile away in Boat No. 6] … While the lights were burning, I saw her
bow pointing down and the stern up; not in a perpendicular position,
but considerable … I should think an angle of not as much as 45°.
48
Elmer Taylor, First Class passenger: The ship was going down by
the bow. The first row of port holes was below the water line, then
another row, while aft, the glowing port holes were lifted higher and
higher until the screws were silhouetted, well out of water … [As] a
background, I ask you to visualize a steel structure that if stood on end
beside the Eiffel Tower, Paris, the top of the structure would be about
level with the topmost platform … and almost twice as high as the
Washington Monument in Washington, D.C.
49
… When the Titanic settled by the bow, the stern was lifted in
midair, and this went on until about half of the ship was out of water at
an angle of about 30 degrees.
50
Amelia ‘Mildred’ Brown, Second Class passenger: [We] stopped to
watch her go down … It went [down] in the front until it was standing
like this [here Miss Brown drew a line that was raised from the
horizontal at an angle of thirty degrees] …51
Here we have a broad range of eyewitness accounts on the next few moments
of the sinking. By this point, the ship had taken its initial plunge, the list to
port had begun to flatten out, the ship’s forward plunge had checked itself for
a moment, and then the head-long plunge had resumed. The ship’s lights,
although dimming as steam pressure supplied by the boilers diminished, were
still burning in all areas of the ship not already under water.
The plunge created a large wave which washed aft with significant
momentum, picking Gracie up and depositing him on the roof near the base of
the second funnel. His exact location is a little unclear, as he also speaks of
landing on the roof of the Officers’ Quarters. However, as he mentioned that
the rail of the Boat Deck was then nearby, and also that he was just a little aft
of the expansion joint, he may initially have been as far forward as the deck
just forward of the Entrance deckhouse. His careful mention of landing on the
roof ‘near the base of the second funnel’ seems to indicate that he landed as
far aft as the roof of the First Class Gymnasium or Entrance, rather than on the
roof of the Officers’ Quarters themselves. Some room for interpretation in his
location should be allowed for, however.
The Collapse of the Forward Funnels
It was during this plunge that mention is made of the forward two funnels
falling. At this point, the question naturally arises: what caused these two
funnels to fall? Lightoller wrote in his autobiography that in those moments,
the ‘terrific strain of bringing the after-end of that huge hull clear out of the
water, caused the expansion joint abaft No. 1 funnel to open up. … The fact
that the two wire stays to this funnel, on the after-part, led over and abaft the
expansion joint, threw on them an extraordinary strain, eventually carrying
away the port wire guy, to be followed almost immediately by the starboard
one’.
52
Indeed, today on the sea floor, the ship’s forward expansion joint has
been opened, initially leading to suspicions that what Lightoller described
might have been what actually happened.
However, several things might suggest otherwise. First of all, Lightoller
did not mention the expansion joint at all in his testimony at either inquiry; his
only mention of it was years later. While not definite evidence against his
statement, there is very little to support it. No other eyewitnesses, as far as we
can ascertain, mentioned any such opening of the expansion joint. Again,
while not proof that it didn’t happen, a single account given over twenty years
after the fact is a rather thin place to start. As far as the wide open condition
of the expansion joint on the wreck, we know that the bow section suffered
tremendous damage upon impact with the sea floor. Plowing into the mud at an
angle of forward trim, when the prow came to rest, the rest of the ship still
carried momentum forward and downward. There is actually some visible
evidence that the deckhouses on the Boat Deck, on either side of the expansion
joint, probably came together at the top, causing some damage, before the
joint re-opened to its current condition. The picture painted is that when the
bow suddenly stopped, the physics created a stubbed-toe effect. This caused
the superstructure aft of the expansion joint to continue moving, until the two
segments of superstructure slammed together. With the forward motion
dissipated, the unsupported aft end of the bow then began to bend downward.
As the lower hull bent until the double bottom came to rest on the sea floor,
this process also separated the two portions of the superstructure resting upon
the hull, until the two segments ended up as we see them today.
Additionally, there is excellent reason to believe that the guy wires which
stretched aft from the No. 1 funnel were not even under any form of extreme
tension at the time the funnel collapsed. The funnels were raked at about an
80° angle from horizontal (or about 10° astern of vertical) when the ship was
sitting flat on the water. At the time that the base of the No. 1 funnel was
submerging, the ship’s forward trim would have been something like 14°. In
other words, the funnels would only have been tipped forward from complete
vertical by about 4°. During Olympic’s career, at no point did her funnels ever
threaten to dismount, no matter how strong the storm, no matter what the trim
or roll, so it is hard to imagine this angle alone causing the funnels to
dismount and collapse. Also suggestive of the concept that the ship’s forward
trim had little to do with the collapse is that while the forward two funnels
were collapsing, the after funnels stayed firmly in place through that moment
of the sinking; they remained in place until after the lights went out. If aft
funnels could stand at an even greater angle without difficulty, then there is
little reason to believe that the loss of two guy wires on the forward funnel at
a point when it was nearly perfectly balanced in a vertical position would
have caused it to simply tear loose and come crashing down toward the sea.
Obviously, Lightoller’s latter-day ‘expansion joint theory’ for the collapse of
the forward funnel is wanting as a plausible explanation.
Another, and far more likely explanation, was actually given by Harland
& Wolff’s Edward Wilding. At the British Inquiry, he listened to much of the
survivor evidence given, taking careful note of testimony that had a bearing on
technical matters. When called to the stand, he was asked what might have
accounted for the funnels’ collapse. He replied:
The funnels are carried from the casings in the way of the
comparatively light upper decks – that is, the boat deck and A deck.
When these decks became submerged and the water got inside the
house, the water would rise outside much faster than inside, and the
excessive pressure on the comparatively light casings which are not
made to take a pressure of that kind would cause the casing to
collapse; would take the seating from under the funnel and bring the
funnel down.
53
Looking at the remains of the base of the No. 1 funnel on the wreck, there do
seem to be signs in the tattered remnants of shredded metal which support
Wilding’s conclusions. In short, the structural failure of the forward funnel
likely had little to do with a parting of guy wires. Indeed, it is more likely that
it was the collapse of the funnel that caused the guy wires to part, rather than
the reverse. Most likely, the collapse began on the starboard side of the
funnel, which is what caused it to swing slightly to starboard of the ship’s
centerline as it came down.
When the No. 2 funnel began to slide under the surface, the ship would
most likely have already been approaching a 20° angle. Very shortly
thereafter, it collapsed in a similar way that the collapse of the No. 1 funnel
had played out. Of note, its failure transpired even though none of its guy
wires were stretched across the forward expansion joint, adding further
evidence to the concept that the guy wires of the funnels parted as a result of
their collapse, and not vice versa. It seems likely that although the ship’s
downward angle had increased somewhat from the point when the No. 1
funnel fell, the collapse of the No. 2 funnel – witnessed so clearly by Thayer –
likely had to do with a similar reason to that which caused the No. 1 funnel to
fall, namely water pressure as the casing flooded. This is particularly true
since the Nos 3 and 4 funnels continued to remain standing even after both
forward funnels had collapsed. The only factor present at both forward
funnels – a factor that was also then absent at the after funnels – was the
flooding and movement of water around them. Only this difference could
explain why both forward funnels failed as their bases submerged, while the
after funnels stayed with the ship as the downward plunge progressed to an
even greater angle.
The Downward Plunge Continues
It is at this point that we come upon an oft-debated question regarding the
breakup: what angle did the ship reach before she broke? This is a
tremendously thorny question. Fortunately, a lot of detail was provided by the
witnesses quoted in this appendix. They were located in a variety of vantage
points and at varying distances, and they all said that the stern of the ship was
well clear of the water before the lights went out. How ‘well clear’?
Lookout George Symons was in Boat No. 1, which was launched at 1:05
a.m. The boat rowed out some distance from the ship’s side, and then they
paused. He compared her position in that moment with her position after she
took her plunge toward the bow. Referring to the earlier condition, he said
that one could ‘just see the propellers’, but that one ‘could not see her keel’.
This would seem to place his observation at roughly 1:30 a.m. or perhaps a
little later. When the ship took her plunge, however, he said that ‘her stern
came well out of the water then’. The difference between the two positions
was obviously quite a large one.
Other witnesses used phrases like ‘her stern stuck up high’, ‘the stern
[was] vertically upwards’, ‘the propeller and everything was quite clear’,
that she ‘almost stood up perpendicular’, and that both the propellers and the
rudder were ‘clear out of the water’. Another said that the stern ‘was right up
in the air. You could see her propeller right clear, and you could see
underneath the keel; you could see part of her keel’. Alfred Crawford said that
while the lights were still on, the ship ‘seemed all clear right from amidships
to aft’.
However, such statements do not necessarily give us a precise picture.
Even at an angle as shallow as 11°, which was about the ship’s position as the
ship took her ‘slight but definite plunge’ and the bow was swamped, the
propellers would all have been clear out of the water, and at least a portion of
the keel and double bottom would have been visible.
Further details are badly needed, and they are quickly found. Colonel
Gracie, who was pulled under water in the vicinity of the roof over the
Officers’ Quarters/First Class Entrance – or possibly as far aft as the
Gymnasium – re-surfaced only after the ship had completely sunk. He was
apparently submerged when the ship was attaining an angle of about 16–19° –
a range, it should be reiterated, that would depend entirely on how far aft the
wave had washed him before depositing him. As a direct observation, he
said: ‘From my personal viewpoint I also know that the Titanic’s decks were
intact at the time she sank, and when I sank with her, there was over sevensixteenths of the ship already under water, and there was no indication then of
any impending break of the deck or ship.’54 So this would seem to be our
minimum range for the angle that the ship attained before breaking up.
At the opposite end of the spectrum, we have the evidence of Lightoller.
When asked if the stern ‘must have been very well up in the air’ at that point,
he agreed. He said that the angle was then steep enough to have submerged or
nearly submerged the second funnel while leaving most, or all, of the third
funnel clear out of the water; although by that point the second funnel had
already fallen, this means that Lightoller must have thought the angle
considerable. More specifically, he clearly stated that the ship had ‘reached
an angle of 50 or 60 degrees, or something about that’ before the ‘rumbling
sound’ which we know was an audible symptom of the failure of the ship’s
hull.
55
 This would seem to be the highest-end of the angle estimates.
Yet Lightoller might not have been in the best location to estimate her
angle at that moment. Even so, a number of others gave further – and highly
specific – information on the point. Peuchen said that while ‘the lights were
burning, I saw her bow pointing down and the stern up; not in a perpendicular
position, but considerable … I should think an angle of not as much as 45°’.
Amelia ‘Mildred’ Brown indicated with gestures an angle of 30°. Elmer
Taylor gave an unbelievably detailed account, and said that as the bow
settled, ‘the stern was lifted in midair’ until ‘about half of the ship was out of
water at an angle of about 30 degrees’.
Survivors were thus all quite clear that the ship’s stern rose to a
significant angle. We are left with a rather broad range of angles to consider –
from a minimum of about 16° up to a maximum less than 45°. What are we, at
this remove, to make of this? First of all, visual estimation of angles and trim
is highly subjective. When viewing the ship as a three-dimensional object in
the water, the first thing that needs to be realized is that the portion above
water was not continuous in shape. While the Promenade and Boat Decks
were clearly box-shaped, the bottom of the ship astern of the bilge keels
narrowed toward a point at the rudder. If some witnesses used the bottom of
the ship, rather than the top, to estimate the ship’s forward trim prior to the
break, this may have exaggerated the angle to a certain extent. Perspective –
the tendency for three-dimensional objects to disappear to a common
vanishing point as they recede into the distance – should also be taken into
account. Thus, if the ship’s stern was farther away from the viewer then the
bow and midship areas – such as the case with Lightoller, who was very
close to the ship and literally floating over her forward portions – this could
also have exaggerated the perception of angle.
However, one can not wholly discount perception of angle, either.
Simultaneously, descriptions of what portions of the ship were above water
and what places were thought to be below water are also helpful in resolving
these various perceptions. Knowing the precise point at which the ship was
pivoting throughout the sinking, and combining this into the mix is also
helpful.
A 20° trim would have just barely covered the entire base of the No. 2
funnel, while a 25° trim would have submerged the funnel to roughly half its
height above the deck. Something between the two angles, then, would
certainly have brought the No. 2 funnel low enough in the water to allow the
process that Wilding suggested to play out, causing it to fall and narrowly
miss Jack Thayer. However, a 30° forward trim would have produced a
position in the water even more similar to what Lightoller outlined,
particularly if he had somehow missed the collapse of the No. 2 funnel and
only thought that it was then completely submerged, while the No. 3 funnel
was still above the water. A 30° angle would also be very much in harmony
with the impressions conveyed by Amelia Brown, Elmer Taylor, and Major
Peuchen. An angle of about 25–30° would also harmonize with Crawford’s
statement that the ship ‘seemed all clear right from midships to aft’ at that
time. So far, survivor consensus – while initially seeming disparate – is
actually relatively consistent.
Forensically speaking: at what point would the stresses upon the ship’s
structure have been the greatest? Interestingly, the stresses imposed on the
ship’s form – by lifting the stern section of the vessel out of the water – would
have risen to their highest peak at about the time that the ship attained a
forward trim of 15°. As the ship’s trim increased from that point, the stresses
would actually have decreased slightly but with a gradually-steepening curve
until they were virtually nonexistent at a wholly perpendicular 90° angle. Had
the ship remained intact up to a completely 90° angle, the weight of her stern
would have been well-balanced, with its weight bearing directly down on the
flooded bow.
Looking simply at the stresses imposed on the ship’s form, a forward trim
of 15° would seem to be the point at which the hull would naturally have
succumbed and her structure failed. Some have thus suggested that the break
occurred at just such a shallow angle. However, as we have seen, the angles
necessary to submerge the ship enough to even remotely match statements by
Lightoller, Amelia Brown, Elmer Taylor, Major Peuchen and others would
seem to indicate a higher-angle break. So how can these two disparate lines
of research – survivor recollections and forensic stress calculations – be
reconciled logically?
One of the survivors may hold the key to the entire thing. Chief Baker
Charles Joughin recalled:
I went to the deck Pantry [almost certainly the Lounge Deck pantry, in
the vicinity of the No. 3 funnel on A Deck], and while I was in there I
thought I would take a drink of water, and while I was getting the drink
of water I heard a kind of crash as if something had buckled, as if part
of the ship had buckled, and then I heard a rush [of people] overhead
[on the Boat Deck] … It was not an explosion or anything like that. It
was like as if the iron was parting.
56
The ‘rush’ that Joughin referred to ‘overhead on the deck’
57 may be the same
one referred to by Gracie:
Clinch Smith made the proposition that we should leave and go
toward the stern, still on the starboard side, so he started and I
followed immediately after him. We had taken but a few steps in the
direction indicated when there arose before us from the decks below,
a mass of humanity several lines deep, covering the Boat Deck, facing
us, and completely blocking our passage toward the stern.
There were women in the crowd, as well as men, and they seemed
to be steerage passengers who had just come up from the decks below.
Instantly, when they saw us and the water on the deck chasing us from
behind, they turned in the opposite direction towards the stern. This
brought them at that point plumb against the iron fence and railing
which divide the first and second cabin passengers…58
Gracie’s description of the crowd being halted in their aft progress by a
railing dividing the First and Second Class passengers is a little misleading,
although certainly unintentionally. There actually was no railing directly
separating First and Second Class portions of the Boat Deck on the starboard
side. Instead, there was a short stretch of Boat Deck set aside specifically as
an Engineers’ Promenade between the First and Second Class decks, just
astern of the No. 3 funnel. What Gracie was most likely referring to, then, was
the railing separating the First Class Boat Deck from the Engineers’
Promenade portion of the Boat Deck; if this conclusion is correct, then the
pile of passengers scrambling to get aft would have been located almost
directly above Joughin in the A Deck Lounge Pantry. It was a very short time,
perhaps only a few seconds, after this that the bow made its first plunge to the
depths, at about 2:15 a.m.
Thus, the noise that Joughin was referring to – ‘a kind of crash as if …
part of the ship had buckled … as if iron was parting’ – happened at about the
same time that the ship made her plunge by the bow. In other words, that sound
apparently occurred when the ship was still at rather a shallow angle of
forward trim. What exactly produced this sound we will probably never know
with certainty. Steel structures under stress do tend to produce unusual groans
and other noises; it could thus be that the sound Joughin heard was not a
significant failure within the vessel’s hull, and that it sounded more serious to
him than it really was. However, one has to allow for the possibility that the
sound was produced by the same failure in the ship’s structure that led to her
‘slight but definite plunge’. It is also possible that it was an early sign of the
process leading to the ship’s eventual breakup.
The history of structural failures shows us that if a certain load-bearing
element of a structure gives way, the redundant strength in other portions of
that structure will take up the load if it is strong enough to do so without
failing itself. A case in point would be the structural failure of the World
Trade Center towers on September 11, 2001. Although a number of loadbearing portions of the towers’ structures were compromised upon initial
impact from the airliners, the remaining portions of the structure took up the
strain. In the end, the remaining strength of the structure was compromised by
the heat from the ensuing fire. The final structural failures of each tower, the
result of an ongoing and irreversible process, were sudden and quite visible.
In the same manner, it seems more than likely that certain elements within
the Titanic’s hull were beginning to give way as the ship’s bow took its
plunge. These failures, while invisible to anyone on the decks or in the
lifeboats, began an irreversible cascade effect. As the ship’s stern continued
swinging higher out of the water, other elements of the ship’s hull began to
take up that strain. Their load may have been temporarily aided by the fact that
the stresses were beginning to diminish as the angle of the stern’s ascent
increased past 15°, when forensic calculations suggest that the stresses had
peaked. There may even have been a number of internal structural failures
coming one after another in a domino-like fashion, while remaining portions
of the hull took up the strain.
As this process played out, there could have been enough time for the ship
to attain a greater angle of forward trim than that which forensic calculation
alone would suggest – one that would more closely match eyewitness
testimony. If correct, it would appear that eventually a point was reached
where so much of the ship’s structural strength had been compromised that she
simply could not hold herself together any longer. Another possibility is that
as the ship’s weight shifted in the water with her stern rearing up, the strain
began to increase on a slightly different, and possibly slightly weaker, portion
of her structure that simply could not take the load.
In short, viewing the breakup as an ongoing process which may have
extended through two or more minutes (the time from when the bow plunged
deeper into the sea through the time of the visible breakup at the time the
primary lights failed), the survivor evidence and forensic stress calculations
would actually seem to go hand in hand rather than being wholly
contradictory. To completely ignore the main body of eyewitness accounts is a
mistake that, it should be remembered, was made once before by Titanic
researchers – and that mistake swayed popular opinion in an incorrect
direction for nearly three-quarters of a century.
This having been said, it is doubtless that further evidence – forensic and
otherwise – on the point will be brought up, debated, and theorized over for
years or decades to come. While we are not prepared to set ourselves up as
giving some sort of ‘final word’ on this subject, we do feel that this wideangle perspective of aggregate evidence from a variety of survivor and
forensic sources suggests that the outward and visible break transpired when
the ship had arrived at roughly a 30° angle of forward trim, give or take a
little.
The Breakup
What happened next was positively astounding to all of those who witnessed
the event. The spectacular and highly prominent failure of the ship’s structure,
which appears to have occurred at about 2:17 a.m., was merely the grande
finale of an ongoing process. Let us resume with the survivor evidence to let
them tell us exactly what happened next.
Lawrence Beesley, Second Class passenger: She slowly tilted
straight on end with the stern vertically upwards, and as she did, the
lights in the cabins and saloons which had not flickered for a moment
since we left, died out, came on again for a single flash, and finally
went out altogether. At the same time the machinery roared down
through the vessel with a rattle and a groaning that could be heard for
miles …59
It was partly a roar, partly a groan, partly a rattle, and
partly a smash, and it was not a sudden roar as an explosion would be:
it went on successively for some seconds, possibly fifteen to twenty
… [it] was stupefying, stupendous … It was as if all the heavy things
one could think of had been thrown downstairs from the top of a
house, smashing each other and the stairs and everything in the way.
60
C. E. Henry Stengel, First Class passenger: … [All] of a sudden
there were four sharp explosions … and then she dipped and the stern
stood up in the air. … I should judge it would be a battery of boilers
going. …; they were quite hard explosions. She dipped, then, forward,
and all you could see was the stern sticking up.61
Hugh Woolner, First Class passenger: Lights were burning and she
settled forward still further, then stopped for about thirty seconds.
Suddenly with a terrific roar, like thousands of tons of rocks rumbling
down a metal chute, she plunged bodily down, head first. Every light
went out and the roaring went on for about a minute.
62
Lady Lucy Duff Gordon: I turned and saw the remaining lights of the
Titanic burning with steady brilliance, but only for a moment and they
were gone. A dull explosion shook the air. From the doomed vessel
there arose an indescribable clamor. A louder explosion followed and
the stern of the great ship shot out of the water. For a few seconds she
stayed motionless while agonized cries from her decks grew in
intensity. Then, with one downward rush, she plunged to her grave and
the air was rent with awful shrieks.
63
Helen Ostby, First Class passenger: As the ship began to stand on
end, we heard a big rumbling, rattling noise as if everything was being
torn from its moorings inside the ship. All of a sudden that stopped,
and she stood on end very quietly for a minute, then went down like
anarrow.
64
Martha Stephenson, First Class passenger: The lights on the ship
burned till just before she went. When the call came that she was
going I covered my face and then heard someone call, ‘She’s broken.’
After what seemed a long time I turned my head only to see the stern
almost perpendicular in the air so that the full outline of the blades of
the propeller showed above the water. She then gave her final
plunge…65
Lily Potter, First Class passenger: After the lights went out, some
ten minutes before the end, she was like some great living thing who
made a last superhuman effort to right herself and then, failing, dove
bow forward to the unfathomable depths below.
66
George Rheims, First Class passenger: She went down straight; I
saw the screws out of the water in the air; she went down perfectly
straight; put her nose in the water.
67
Henry Harper, First Class passenger: [The] lights of the Titanic
suddenly went out and we began to think her end could not be very far
away. I have heard a lot of talk about explosions in the Titanic; that
her boilers blew up and tore her body apart. I certainly heard nothing
that sounded like an explosion. I did hear a great roar mingled with
hissing coming from the direction of the ship. … Very slowly the giant
black hull began to diminish against the skyline. It was a frightful thing
to feel that the ship was going, faster and faster, and that we could do
nothing for the people on her…68
John Podesta, Fireman: … [Titanic’s] stern rose up in the air. Out
went all her lights and the rumbling noise was terrible. It must have
been her boilers and engines as well as her bulkheads, all giving way.
Then she disappeared altogether.
69
Archie Jewell, Lookout: As she went away by the head so the lights
went out, and we heard some explosions as she was going down. But
all the lights went out and we could only see a black object in front of
us. … As the stern stood up in the air so all the lights went out.
70
William Sloper, First Class passenger: Suddenly the lights dimmed
… in a minute the lights went out entirely and then the stern seemed to
rise perpendicularly in the air. There were two loud explosions, a
grinding crash and the big ship plunged out of sight.
71
William Ward, Saloon Steward: She gave a kind of sudden lurch
forward, and I heard a couple of reports, reports more like a volley of
musketry than anything else. You would not call them a heavy
explosion. It did not seem to me like an explosion at all.
72
Susan Webber, Second Class passenger: We couldn’t hear the
explosion when it came, but the boat was torn apart near the middle.
73
Emily Badman, Third Class passenger: We had gone about a mile
when there were two big explosions and the Titanic split in two. The
front end went down at once and the back stood up so that it was
almost straight and then went out of sight.
74
Lillian Bentham, Second Class passenger: We had just moved a few
yards from the giant ship when she was broken by the explosion of her
boilers and sank in two sections.
75
Kate Buss, Second Class passenger: It was a grand sight at sea, and
with every light she was a picture. She parted right in halves, the
forward part went down first, and the aft seemed to stand upright.
There was a terrific explosion.
76
Major Arthur Peuchen, First Class passenger: We heard a sort of a
rumbling sound and the lights were still on at the rumbling sound, as
far as my memory serves me; then a sort of an explosion, then another.
It seemed to be one, two, or three rumbling sounds, then the lights
went out. … I saw it when the lights went out. You could not tell very
much after the lights went out. … I could only see the outline of the
boat, you might say. … It was intact at that time … I heard the
explosions … [it was] a sort of rumbling sound. It was not a sharp
sound – more of a rumbling kind of a sound, but still sharp at the same
time. It would not be as loud as a clap of thunder, or anything that way,
or like a boiler explosion, I should not think. … I imagined that the
decks had blown up with the pressure, pulling the boat down, bow on,
this heavyweight, and the air between the decks; that is my theory of
the explosion. I do not know whether it is correct or not, but I do not
think it was the boilers. I think it was the pressure, that heavy weight
shoving that down, the water rushing up, and the air coming between
the decks; something had to go.77
Kornelia Andrews, First Class passenger: We watched the ship go
down. At last came a mighty crash, the boilers had exploded, and then
in a moment the ship seemed to break in pieces or rather in half; the
bow going down first and then all the lights went out and in a short
time nothing more was to be seen …78
Laura Cribb, Third Class passenger: … suddenly the lights of the
ship went out. Immediately there was a terrific explosion mingled with
the shrieks and moans from the helpless and doomed passengers who
were left on the wreck of the great ship.
The explosion caused the ship to split in half, the stern straight up in
the air, and then it sank rapidly.
79
Nellie Becker, Second Class passenger: She seemed to break right in
the middle, and the middle to fall in. It was terrible beyond words. I
shall never forget that sound.80
Ruth Becker, Second Class passenger: We could see the port lights
go under one by one until there was an awful explosion of the boilers
bursting. And then the ship seemed to break right down the middle …
and after a bit, go down.
81
Charlotte Collyer, Second Class passenger: The end … came with a
deafening roar that stunned me. Something in the very bowels of the
Titanic exploded, and millions of sparks shot up to the sky, like
rockets in a park on the night of a summer holiday. This red spurt was
fan-shaped as it went up, but the sparks descended in every direction
in the shape of a fountain of fire. Two other explosions followed, dull
and heavy, as if below the surface. The Titanic broke in two before
my eyes. The fore part was already partly under the water. It
wallowed over and disappeared instantly. The stern reared straight on
end and poised on the ocean for many seconds – they seemed minutes
to me.
It was only then that the electric lights on board went out … I
turned my face away, but looked around the next instant and saw the
second half of the great boat slip below the surface as casually as a
pebble in a pond.82
Charles Dahl, Third Class passenger: By this time the water was up
to the bridge of the doomed vessel. The bow settled long before the
stern. Suddenly we heard an explosion, and in about two minutes a
second followed.
All the lights then went out. She seemed to break in two. The stern
went down. There was no trouble for us to see it. There seemed to be
a black cloud come up as the head went down. There were terrible
noises as of the crushing of timber.
83
Washington Dodge, First Class passenger: Suddenly, while I was
looking at the dark outline of the steamer, I saw her stern rise high
from the water, and then the vessel was seen to completely disappear
from sight with startling rapidity. A series of loud explosions, three or
four in number, were then heard, due, as we all believed, to bursting
boilers … My idea is, that when the stern of the ship was lifted high
out of the water by the bursting of the water-tight compartments, in the
forward end of the vessel, that the vast weight of the machinery caused
the framework and the plates of the ship to give way, thus allowing the
great inrush of waters to complete her destruction.
84
Frank Dymond, Fireman: The Titanic broke in two, and her boilers
blew up. The sound of the machinery as it ran out of her was plainly
heard when she went down.
85
Esther Hart, Second Class passenger: The front portion of her was
pointing downwards and she appeared to be breaking in halves. Then
with a mighty and tearing sob, as of some gigantic thing instinct with
life, the front portion of her dived, for that is the only word I can use
properly to describe it, dived into the sea, and the after part with a
heavy list, also disappeared. … For a few moments we could see
everything that was happening, for, as the vessel sank, millions and
millions of sparks flew up and lit everything around us.
86
Bertha Lehmann, Second Class passenger: All at once there were
three loud reports, they sounded like a very loud crash of thunder
when it strikes very close to you. We all looked at the Titanic. It had
broken apart! The front part of the boat went under first. The helm of
the front half sank and then the middle.
87
William Mellors, Second Class passenger: … [She] was going under
water and it seemed as if thousands of men were dragging me under
with her… There was suddenly an explosion and I found myself
whizzing through the water at an awful pace, having been blown away
by the explosion. When I came to my senses a few minutes after I
looked round and suddenly saw the ship part in the middle with the
stern standing several hundred feet out of the water …88
Walter Nichols, Saloon Steward: The ship sank slowly and steadily
and then we heard a little explosion that must have been the first
boiler. After that the lights began to go out in different parts of the
ship. Then came a big explosion. We could see a mass of black smoke.
The boat seemed to lift right up out of the water and tilt up on end, and
then seemed to break and drop back. For one moment she was right up
in the air standing on her nose. … There was no other sound – just the
crying of the people.
89
Emily Ryerson, First Class passenger: [The] two forward funnels
seemed to lean and then she seemed to break in half as if cut with a
knife, and as the bow went under the lights went out; the stern stood up
for several minutes, black against the stars, and then that, too plunged
down …90
Joseph Scarrott, AB: When the third funnel had nearly disappeared I
heard four explosions, which I took to be the bursting of the boilers.
The ship was right up on end then.
Suddenly she broke in two between the third and fourth funnel. The
after part of the ship came down on the water in its normal position
and seemed as if it was going to remain afloat, but it only remained a
minute or two and then sank. The lights were burning right up till she
broke in two.91
* * * * *
… you could hear the breaking up of things in the ship, and then
followed four explosions.
92
Eugene Daly, Third Class passenger: Her stern stuck up high. I
thought she would fall on us as she seemed to be swinging around, but
she did not.
93
John Thayer, Jr., First Class passenger:
94
I saw the ship in a sort of
red glare, and it seemed to me that she broke in two just in front of the
third funnel … At this time I was sucked down, and as I came up I was
pushed out again and twisted around by a large wave. When I got on
[an overturned life boat] I was facing the ship. The stern then seemed
to rise in the air and stopped at about an angle of 60 degrees. It
seemed to hold there for a time and then with a hissing sound it shot
right down out of sight with people jumping from the stern. The stern
either pivoted around towards our boat, or we were sucked toward it
…95
* * * * *
The Titanic seemed to hang and with the roar of boilers and engines
breaking loose in the hold slipping to the forward part of the ship the
stern bulkheads held and the ship, pivoting and moving in an almost
perpendicular position, was sticking up in the air almost 300 feet.
The ship then corkscrewed around so that the propeller, rudder and
all seemed to go right over the heads of us on the upturned boat. Of
course the lights now were all out. The ship seemed to hang in this
position for minutes. Then with a dive and final plunge, the Titanic
went under the water with very little apparent suction or noise.
96
* * * * *
The water was over the base of the first funnel … Suddenly the whole
superstructure of the ship appeared to split, well forward to midships,
and bow or buckle upwards. The second funnel … seemed to be lifted
off, emitting a cloud of sparks … There was the gigantic mass, about
fifty or sixty yards away. The forward motion had stopped. She was
pivoting on a point just abaft of midship. Her stern was gradually
rising into the air, seemingly in no hurry, just slowly and
deliberately…
[The] great after part of the ship, two hundred and fifty feet of it,
rose into the sky, till it reached a sixty-five or seventy degree angle.
Here it seemed to pause and just hung, for what felt like minutes.
Gradually she turned her deck away from us … Then, with the
deadened noise of the bursting of her last few gallant bulkheads, she
slid quietly away from us into the sea.
97
George Symons, Lookout: She took a heavy cant and her bow went
down clear … Head down, and that is the time when I saw her lights
go out, all her lights. The next thing I saw was her poop. As she went
down like that so her poop righted itself and I thought to myself, ‘The
poop is going to float.’ It could not have been more than two or three
minutes after that that her poop went up as straight as anything; there
was a sound like steady thunder as you hear on an ordinary night at a
distance, and soon she disappeared from view …
… Her head was going well down … her stern was well out of the
water … It righted itself without the bow; in my estimation she must
have broken in half. I should think myself it was abaft the after
expansion plate … about abeam of the after funnel, or a little forward.
… I saw the poop right itself … then it went up and disappeared from
view.
98
John Poingdestre, AB: I thought when I looked that the ship broke at
the foremost funnel … [because] I had seen that part disappear. … She
was short; the afterpart righted itself after the foremost part had
disappeared. … It uprighted itself, as if nothing had happened …
straight on the water again … [The afterpart did not float on the water
for] above a couple of minutes.
99
Thomas Dillon, Trimmer: [Titanic] took one final plunge and righted
herself again … [before] I left the ship. [Authors’ note: Dillon was
then on the Poop Deck.] … [The aftermost] funnel seemed to cant up
towards me …; it seemed to fall up this way.
100
Frederick Scott, Greaser: [Lifeboat No. 4] had just got at the stern
of her when she started breaking up …; she broke off at the afterfunnel, and when she broke off her stern end came up in the air and
came down on a level keel and disappeared. … [She broke at] the
after-funnel. From the after-funnel to the stern of her… just aft of the
last funnel.
101
Charles Lightoller, Second Officer: After she reached an angle of 50
or 60 degrees, or something about that, there was this rumbling sound,
which I attributed to the boilers leaving their beds and crushing down
on or through the bulkheads. The ship at that time was becoming more
perpendicular, until finally she attained the absolute perpendicular …
and then went slowly down. She went down very slowly until the end,
and then, after she got [to] … the afterpart of the second cabin deck,
she, of course, went down much quicker.
102
* * * * *
The fore part, and up to the second funnel was by this time completely
submerged, and as we watched this terribly awe-inspiring sight,
suddenly all the lights went out and the huge bulk was left in black
darkness, but clearly silhouetted against the bright sky. Then, the next
moment, the massive boilers left their beds and went thundering down
with a hollow rumbling roar, through the bulkheads, carrying
everything with them that stood in their way. … [The] ship slowly but
surely reared herself on end and brought rudder and propellers clear
of the water, till, at last, she assumed an absolute perpendicular
position. In this amazing attitude she remained for the space of half a
minute. Then with impressive majesty and ever-increasing momentum
she silently took her last tragic dive …103
Frank Osman, AB: After she got to a certain angle she exploded,
broke in halves, and it seemed to me as if all the engines and
everything that was in the after part slid out into the forward part, and
the after part came right up again, and as soon as it came up right
down it went again.
104
George Crowe, Saloon Steward: … [She] almost stood up
perpendicular, and her lights went dim, and presently she broke clean
in two, probably two-thirds of the length of the ship. … Two-thirds in
the water, one-third of the aft funnel sticking up. … She broke, and the
after part floated back. … [The] bow part, two-thirds of the ship,
sank. … [Then] there was an explosion, and the aft part turned on end
and sank. … There were several explosions. … A kind of muffled
explosion. It seemed to be an explosion at a very great distance,
although we were not very far away.
105
John Collins, Scullion: Just as I came up to the surface… Her bow
was in the water. She had not exploded then. Her bow was in the
water, and I just looked around and saw the lights. … She exploded
once in the water, and her stern end was up out of the water; and with
the explosion out of the water it blew her stern up. … I am sure it
floated for at least a minute. … [The] lights was [sic] out.
106
Frederick Clench, AB: I heard two explosions … [Before] the ship
had sunk there was one explosion … I should say a matter of 10
minutes before she went under. … The lights went out after the second
explosion. Then she gradually sank down into the water very
slowly.
107
Arthur Bright, QM: She broke in two. All at once she seemed to go
up on end, you know, and come down about half way, and then the
afterpart righted, [sic, spurious comma] itself again and the forepart
had disappeared. A few seconds the after part did the same thing and
went down. I could distinctly see the propellers – everything – out of
the water. … I heard something, but I would not call it an explosion. It
was like a rattling of chain, more than anything else. … [When asked
to confirm that the ship went down by her bow first, and that he could
see the stern and the keel on the stern, Bright responded in the
affirmative, then added:] Then that righted itself again, got on an even
keel again after that. … It settled down in the water on an even keel.
[When asked if he saw any lights on the stern after she settled, he
responded in the affirmative:] … until she finally disappeared
underneath the water. … [She broke] as near the middle as anything, I
should say; but it was dark.
108
May Futrelle, First Class passenger: [All of ] a sudden the lights
snapped out. There was a terrible creaking noise, the Titanic seemed
to break in two. There was a tremendous explosion.
For a fraction of a second she arose in the air and was plainly
visible in the light caused from the blowing up of the boilers …109
* * * * *
She began to settle by the nose. Then came two dull explosions. We
saw her break in two. The bow, which had been pointing downward,
dipped, turned up again, writhed and sank with the stern – exactly as
though one had stepped on a worm.
110
Ida Hippach, First Class passenger: When we had rowed about 150
yards away from the Titanic we heard a fearful explosion. I saw the
ship split open. At the same time the ship’s bow rose up in the air as
the steamer sank towards the center.
111
Edward Buley, AB: She went down as far as the afterfunnel, and then
there was a little roar, as though the engines had rushed forward, and
she snapped in two, and the bow part went down and the afterpart
came up and staid up five minutes before it went down. … [We] could
see the afterpart afloat, and there was no forepart to it. I think she must
have parted where the bunkers were. She parted at the last, because
the afterpart of her settled out of the water horizontally after the other
part went down. First of all you could see her propellers and
everything. Her rudder was clear out of the water. You could hear the
rush of machinery, and she parted in two, and the afterpart settled
down again, and we thought the afterpart would float altogether. …
She uprighted herself for about five minutes, and then tipped over and
disappeared. … [The afterpart] went down headforemost. … You
could see she went in two, because we were quite near to her and
could see her quite plainly. … The lights were all out.
112
Frank Evans, AB: You could see her when the lights were clear, and
then until she gave the final plunge. … She parted between the third
and fourth funnels … The foremost part was gone, and it seemed as if
the engines were all gone out. [When asked if the stern ‘came up and
was horizontal with the surface of the water’ after the break, Evans
replied in the affirmative.] … From the after funnel to the ensign mast
[came up]. … I should say about 200 feet was afloat; that is, of the
stern part. … You could see that in the outline. Then she made a
sudden plunge [forward], and the stern went right up.113
Alexander Littlejohn, Saloon Steward: Her stern went right up in
the air. There were two or three explosions and it appeared … that the
stern part came down and righted itself.
114
Harold Lowe, Fifth Officer: She went down head first and inclined
at an angle. That is, when she took her final plunge she was inclined at
an angle of about 75°. … Pretty well [perpendicular]. … I heard
explosions … I should say about four.
115
Thomas Whiteley, Saloon Steward: When I got the rope on my leg
off I came to the top, made for some wreckage which I hung on to, just
in time to see the Titanic blow her sides away. She broke in the
middle, her forward end went down. The after end righted itself, went
right up into the air and disappeared.116
Carrie Chaffee, First Class passenger: Just before going down it
seemed to writhe, breaking into three parts into which it was divided.
First the middle seemed to go down, lifting the bow and stern into the
air. Then it twisted the other way, throwing the middle up. Finally the
bow went under, and it plunged, stern last.
117
Elmer Taylor, First Class passenger: Instead of all the inside fittings
of the ship breaking loose from their moorings, the excessive weight
of the stern dangled in mid-air, broke the back of the ship at one of the
expansion joints.
The crashing sound, quite audible a quarter of a mile away, was
due, in my opinion, to tearing the ship’s plates apart, or that part of the
hull below the expansion joints, thus breaking the back at a point
almost mid-way the length of the ship, or about through the Music
Room.
118
Thomas Ranger, Greaser: The forward end of the ship went
underneath and seemed to break off, and the afterpart came back on a
level keel. … [Then it] turned up and went down steadily. … She just
slowly turned up and went down. You could see the propellers in the
air.
119 … The lights gradually went out as the aft end of the ship went
under.
[Asked if when he had come up on deck the only portion lighted was
the stern, Ranger responded, ‘Yes.’ When asked if, when the forward
end of the boat had broken off, the after end had ‘come back suddenly
or slowly on to a level keel’, Ranger responded: ‘She came back
slowly.’120
]
The Sounds of the Breakup
Passenger after passenger told the same, or nearly the same story: the lights
burned as the ship’s stern reared up higher out of the water. At almost the
same exact time that the lights went out, a terrible sound began. Most of those
who described the ship splitting placed the timing of that event concurrent
with that of the horrible sounds and the failure of the lights. The sound was
invariably described as ‘explosion[s]’, a ‘terrific roar’, a ‘terrible’ ‘rumbling
noise’, a ‘mighty crash’, a ‘deafening roar’, ‘reports’, ‘reports more like a
volley of musketry’, a ‘sound like steady thunder … at a distance’, a ‘rattling
of chain’, and so forth.
At the time most attributed these sounds to boilers exploding, or to all of
the ship’s boilers and machinery breaking loose and crashing down through
the ship; a few attributed them to failures of the ship’s watertight bulkheads.
Some, like Peuchen and Taylor, thought that the great sound had to do with
failures of the ship’s hull or decks. Today, we know that none of the ship’s
boilers exploded. The boilers in Boiler Room No. 2 are all intact and visible
at the aft end of the bow section, still in their mounts; all five single-ended
boilers from Boiler Room No. 1 are in the debris field, intact. No other
boilers have been found in the debris field. So this terrible noise must have
been caused by the failure of the ship’s hull.
Is it possible that the parting of the hull could have sounded like ‘reports’,
‘a volley of musketry’, or ‘explosions’? From a broader maritime
perspective, the answer would be absolutely, yes. During the 1920s, the two
largest ships in the world – the Leviathan and the Majestic – both suffered
significant failures of their primary hulls while they were at sea. Although
both ships survived, those aboard the two vessels variously described the
structural failure as sounding like a naval gun being fired, a ‘cannon shot’, ‘a
loud retort’, and ‘[a] bang! A sharp snapping crack sound!’
121
 The similarities
to the descriptions of the noises during Titanic’s breakup are quite
impressive. While there seems to have been only one sound on each of the
German-built vessels, eyewitnesses who saw the Titanic break mentioned
anywhere from one to four of these frightful noises, with the most common
numerical estimate being three or four. It seems most likely that the quick
series of reports had to do with the most significant failures of portions of the
ship’s structure.
One possible reason for the disparity in the number of reports mentioned
is suggested by Charlotte Collyer’s recollection. In mentioning three separate
sounds, she described the first sound as being ‘in the very bowels of the
Titanic’, and throwing sparks up and out in a fan shape, like a ‘fountain of
fire’. She described the second pair of sounds quite differently than the first,
saying that they were ‘dull and heavy, as if below the surface’. Concurrent
with the second set of sounds, she said that the ‘Titanic broke in two before
my eyes’. It thus seems likely that the first structural failure sounded louder to
her ears, while still being well internal to the ship from her perspective. The
other two sounds were audibly duller and sounded from below the surface.
Also noteworthy is Saloon Steward George Crowe’s recollection that
after the stern had ‘floated back’ into the water, and after the bow had sunk,
then ‘there was an explosion, and the aft part turned on end and sank. … There
were several explosions … A kind of muffled explosion. It seemed to be an
explosion at a very great distance, although we were not very far away’. This
would seem to indicate that the final report heard by Crowe came
immediately before the stern section’s forward dive to a vertical or nearvertical position in the water. Also interesting is that this report apparently
sounded muffled, as if at a great distance, to Crowe, a similar description to
Charlotte Collyer’s.
It is possible that, to some eyewitnesses, the duller sounds were either
drowned out by the louder sound of the first report, or did not impress
themselves as forcefully on the minds of some. Some of the reports may even
have been very close together in nature, sounding more like a single report
than two separate sounds. Only those with the clearest memories, the best
hearing, or the best possible position in the water to hear clearly may have
been able to sort through the overwhelming nature of what was happening at
that time.
It is interesting to note, however, that there were three major separation
points in the double bottom; a major separation – or perhaps more than one –
also happened at the top and sides of the ship’s hull structure. Most likely,
then, the sounds described by the passengers were the sounds of the ship’s
main structural failures transpiring. Accompanying the large reports seems to
have been an ongoing groaning, roaring, metallic clattering sound that
continued throughout the hull failure and which, according to most accounts,
did not continue as the stern section itself made its final vertical dive. This
would tend to indicate that they, also, had to do with the structural failure of
the ship.
Whatever actually caused those sounds, they must have been absolutely
appalling to hear, and when combined with the ghastly human chorus of
terrified people riding the ship through its final gyrations, the aural picture of
utter chaos and fright is revealed in all its horror.
The Stern ‘Settles Back’
A good number of the survivors quoted above also described the ship as
partially righting itself, or were very clear that the stern came back down on
something of an even keel, immediately after the break. How do their
recollections mesh with cinematic depictions of the stern’s violent collapse
onto the surface of the sea? Thomas Ranger said that she ‘came back on a
level keel … slowly’, while others used words or phrases such as that the
stern ‘floated’ back, ‘settled down again’, or ‘came down’. None of these
descriptions bring to mind a picture of a startling crash with a large ensuing
wave. Only one, Saloon Steward Walter Nichols, used a term that could be
interpreted as a violent crash, when he said that the ship ‘seemed to break and
drop [Authors’ emphasis] back’. Most likely, the stern settled back at a
slower pace than previously thought, perhaps due to an ongoing series of
structural failures that progressively separated the two halves.
This period plan of Olympic and Titanic shows the location of the emergency dynamo.
When Did the Lights Fail?
As an interesting aside, several of the witnesses seemed to indicate that at
least some of the ship’s lights stayed on after the ship broke. Foremost among
these was Greaser Thomas Ranger; although he was very specific about the
ship breaking up, his testimony on the lights is at odds with the general
sequence:
4114. When you say the forward end seemed to break off, and the
afterpart came back on a level keel, and then you say the lights were
going out. When she came back like that on a level keel were there any
lights? – Right aft. The lights were right aft what were burning, on the
afterend what was floating.
122
Elizabeth Shute also made a reference to a light in those final moments. She
wrote that as the liner was ‘fast, fast disappearing’, there was only ‘one tiny
light’ remaining, ‘a powerless little spark, a lantern attached to the mast’.
123
Quartermaster Bright said that he saw the lights still burning after the ship had
broken. Frank Prentice, who was aboard the ship as she sank, said that the
ship ‘seemed to break in two’, and that the stern, where he was, ‘went way up
into the air and remained in that position. … The lights had gradually gone
out, excepting one light near where I stood’.
124 August Wennerström recalled
that his last sighting of the ship was ‘the electric light, still burning when she
was under the water’.
125 Charles Joughin also said that when he was hanging
on the outside rail waiting for the ship to take her final plunge, he checked his
watch, noted the time at 2:15 a.m., and then placed the watch in his back
pocket. He said that even then – certainly well after the ship had broken, since
the ship was about to take her final plunge – there was an electric light
burning. ‘The electric lights were burning right to the very last.’ When asked
if there was ‘never a time when you were on that ship when there was not
electric light where you were’, he responded: ‘Right to the very finish that I
saw.’126
Thomas Ranger had said that as he was ‘coming up the dummy funnel’ to
the deck, the ‘emergency light engine was running’.
127 He was almost
certainly referring to the emergency generating sets, which consisted of two
30-kilowatt dynamos located above the waterline on D Deck in the Turbine
Engine Casing. Built to be fed by steam from Boiler Rooms Nos 2, 3, or 5, it
seems most likely that the former boiler room was supplying the steam in
those last minutes. The emergency sets, though weak by comparison to the
quartet of 400-kilowatt dynamos comprising the main set, were capable of
providing quite a bit of illumination. It was connected to an emergency
lighting circuit that could provide limited lighting throughout the ship even if
the primary electrical-generating set was inoperative; the emergency circuit
could also power the Marconi set, the ship’s mandatory running lights,
telegraph and compass lights, and a number of other vital areas. One of the
ship’s primary electrical circuits supplied only the after section of the liner,
and powered elements of the Docking Bridge and equipment, as well as the
stern light – which was possibly the one referred to by Wennerström in his
account.
128
Interestingly, three of the six witnesses who referred to the lights burning
even at this late stage were either still aboard the ship, or were swimming for
their lives in the water very close to the ship. Ranger was in Boat No. 4,
which was still very close to the liner as she sank. Quartermaster Bright was
in Collapsible D, also not very far from the ship; of this group, only Elizabeth
Shute – in Boat No. 3 – was quite a distance from the dying vessel. If the
‘tiny… powerless … lantern’ she referred to was a lamp on the mainmast –
optional according to Board of Trade regulations at the time – then it may
have been an oil lamp, not connected to the other references of certain
electrical lights operating even after the break. On the other hand, it could
potentially have been another light – perhaps even the extreme aft light by the
jackstaff on the Poop – that she was referring to, and she believed that it was
on the mast because it was so high above the water.
It should be remembered that a majority of eyewitnesses said that the
failure of the lights was catastrophic and complete, and that it happened very
suddenly. However, it does seem possible that, one way or another, a ‘last
gasp’ of electricity was supplied to the after section of the vessel even after
the breakup, powering a few meager lights that the majority either did not
notice, or did not refer to in their statements.
A Top-Down Break…? Or A Bottom-Up Break…?
For years, it has been generally assumed that the ship broke from the top
down, giving way first at her upper decks, with the failure continuing down to
her keel. This was generally what eyewitnesses seemed to have been
describing. It is also a theory that seemed to make sense because at the time,
the ship was under hogging stress (downward stress upon both extreme ends
of the ship) rather than sagging stress (downward stress upon the center of the
ship). Hogging stress would produce tension at the ship’s upper section, while
tending to compress her lower hull. The ship’s keel and double bottom were
also designed to be the strongest portions of the hull, and thus seemed least
likely to be the culprit of the initial failure. Additionally, if the keel of the ship
had remained inter-connected with both the bow and stern sections, it was
believed that the eventual descent of the bow could have been the force which
pulled the then un-flooded stern down headfirst until it was standing in the air,
thus dooming the stern to follow the bow of the ship.
More recently, however, some have theorized that the ship’s keel and
double bottom failed first, and that only after the double bottom had failed did
the upper decks begin to give way. Much of this theory has been based upon
new forensic investigations and analyses of crucial pieces of physical
evidence at the wreck site. In 2005 two very large segments of the Titanic’s
double-bottom and keel were explored and thoroughly documented by an
expedition to the site. While the pieces had been discovered during previous
expeditions, their importance does not seem to have been fully realized at the
time.
129
These two enormous chunks of wreckage proved to be interconnecting,
full-width and intact sections of the ship’s double bottom structure, with the
bilge keels still connected. They also connected nearly perfectly with the aft
end of the double bottom found on the bow section, and with the forward end
of the double bottom on the stern section. This means that the entirety of the
ship’s double bottom has now been accounted for. Obviously, tremendous
forces were involved in causing these two immensely strong pieces of the
ship to detach from the rest of the structure and from each other.
These two segments of double bottom are not the only noteworthy forensic
evidence available, however. Another large piece of the ship which has been
identified and recovered is what became known as ‘The Big Piece’. Although
much smaller than the double-bottom portions of the ship on the sea floor, this
piece is very interesting as it formed part of the ship’s starboard shell plating
along C and D Decks, in the vicinity of cabins C-79 and C-81 and their
interconnecting bathroom. ‘The big piece’ was located at the top edge of the
hull proper, as the floor of B Deck, just above, formed the top of the hull
girder.
Not only is this directly in the area referred to by many survivors as being
involved in the breakup, but the piece itself is also noteworthy, as it became
detached from the rest of the vessel in a manner that could only have
transpired during the breakup. As it broke free, the separation from the C
Deck plates seems quite grisly; a section of the floor of C Deck, (on Frame 32
Aft, in line with the bulkhead separating stateroom C-79 from its adjoining
bath room) tore away from the decking in the vicinity of the outboard edge.
The beam bracket connecting the frame to the deck remained in place, and the
decking beyond tore through, leaving behind a jagged and ugly edge.
Meanwhile, the steel plating of the hull plates which eventually formed
‘the big piece’ were also detaching from the surrounding hull plating on all
sides. Most telling of all, most of the places where the plates gave way were
not at the joints between plates, but instead were tears right through the
plating. This is especially stunning because much of the plating in this area
had been given special ‘doubling’ plates, tremendously increasing the
thickness and strength of the hull. Whatever force had caused this ‘big piece’
to shred away from the other portions of those same, enormously strong hull
plates had to have been profound – almost beyond imagination.
So what can survivor testimony, available physical evidence – including
the double bottom segments and ‘the big piece’ – as well as modern forensic
tools such as computer analysis all tell us about the progressive order of the
ship’s hull failure? Let us first turn to the survivors for a starting point and to
get some idea of how the ship actually moved during those moments.
While many of those who said the ship broke were silent on what
happened to the bow during and after the break, a few were very specific on
the point. May Futrelle, in one account, said that when the ship broke in two,
the bow, ‘which had been pointing downward, dipped, turned up again,
writhed and sank with the stern, exactly as though one had stepped on a
worm’. Ida Hippach said that she ‘saw the ship split open. At the same time
the ship’s bow rose up in the air as the steamer sank towards the center’.
Carrie Chaffee said that, ‘Just before going down it seemed to writhe,
breaking into three parts into which it was divided. First the middle seemed to
go down, lifting the bow and stern into the air. Then it twisted the other way,
throwing the middle up. Finally the bow went under, and it plunged stern last.’
These three accounts, taken on their own, might seem to indicate that the
ship broke with her middle moving in a downward direction, in response
thrusting the previously-sunken bow back upwards. However, certain details
of the accounts would seem to defy basic physics, particularly since the bow
section was at that time so thoroughly flooded. It also does not match the
accounts of some survivors who were swimming in the water over the bow
portions of the ship; none of these said that the ship itself rose up again out of
the depths underneath their feet once it had fully submerged.
At the same time, several other accounts were very specific in stating that
something else had transpired. Charlotte Collyer’s account spoke of millions
of sparks shooting up to the sky in a fan shape, indicating an expanding
opening in the upper decks or upper portions of the ship early on during the
break. She was even more specific when she said that the fore part, which
was ‘already partly under the water … wallowed over and disappeared
instantly’. Esther Hart said that when the ship appeared to be breaking in
halves, the ‘front portion of her dived … into the sea’. Bertha Lehmann said:
‘It had broken apart! The front part of the boat went under first. The helm of
the front half sank and then the middle.’ Jack Thayer recalled that ‘the whole
superstructure of the ship appeared to split, well forward to midships, and
bow or buckle upwards’. Frank Osman similarly seemed to describe seeing a
large opening in the ship, for he thought that he saw the ‘engines and
everything that was in the after part’ slide out ‘into the forward part’. Arthur
Bright said that when the ship’s stern section tipped to the bow and sank in its
final throes, it was doing ‘the same thing’ as the bow had done just after the
break. Thomas Whiteley, swimming in the water, said that he saw ‘Titanic
blow her sides away. She broke in the middle, her forward end went down…’
So how can these apparently dichotomous accounts be reconciled? Carrie
Chaffee’s account may hold the key, as she specifically said that the ship had
broken ‘into three parts’. This brings us to an interesting point – where
precisely did survivors say the ship had broken? Here we have great disparity
– some said that it was close to midships, i.e., in the vicinity of the First Class
Lounge on the Boat Deck. Jack Thayer, in one of his accounts, said that she
had broken just in front of the No. 3 funnel, while in another he said that it
was more in the vicinity of midships. At the opposite extreme, some, such as
Frederick Scott, said that the break occurred as far aft as behind the No. 4
funnel. Meanwhile some, like Frank Evans, were very specific that they saw
the ship break ‘between the third and fourth funnels’. At first glance, these
statements once again seem completely irreconcilable.
However, a quick look at the physical evidence on the wreck shows how
these varying statements could all be correct. The cleanest section of split
seems to be at the aft end of the bow section, and runs in a more or less –
although not perfectly – vertical line in the vicinity of Frame Numbers 12–13
Aft in the after portion of the No. 2 Boiler Room. At the bottom of the ship,
this is where the double bottom broke, and where the front end of the detached
forward double bottom segment interconnected with the bow of the ship. At
the top of the ship, at the Boat Deck, the superstructure seems to have parted
in just about the same area, around the forward portion of the No. 3 funnel
casing, and in the extreme after segment of the First Class Lounge where it
wrapped around the funnel casing. This split would very clearly mesh with
those who mentioned a forward break.
At the stern, the picture is a little different. At the forward half of the stern
section, the double bottom parted in the Reciprocating Engine Room, in the
vicinity of Frames 35–37 Aft. This was directly beneath the forward portion
of each of the reciprocating engines, and the break literally snapped the
forward cylinders off of each engine; each of these portions of engine
eventually ended up in the debris field. From the known damage and
separation of the reciprocating engines, Frank Osman’s statement about seeing
the engines slide out of the stern into the bow section – while at first seeming
ludicrous – actually begins to sound plausible. Where the stern section’s
double bottom broke, the aft portion of the stern segment of detached double
bottom interconnects rather nicely. Meanwhile, at the top of the stern section,
very little is left above the now-exposed stern three-quarters of each
reciprocating engine. At the Boat Deck level, only from the area of the Second
Class Entrance deckhouse – abaft the No. 4 funnel – and on towards the stern
does anything become even remotely recognizable. Forward of that point,
very little is identifiable, particularly above D Deck. This damage pattern
would seem to mesh well with those statements that said the ship broke aft of
the No. 4 funnel.
Meanwhile, the double bottom between the forward and stern halves of
the wreck also broke apart into two large segments. This occurred in the
vicinity of Frames 24–26, underneath the single-ended boilers in Boiler Room
No. 1.
Finally, at the top, starboard side, the forces causing the ship to break up
also caused ‘the big piece’ to literally shred away from the surrounding
portions of the hull and the C Deck plating. In addition, a small ‘tail’ of the
outer hull plating – pointed downward from the main body of ‘the big piece’
like a knife and shaped very much like a blade – was detached from the rest of
the ship and came off with ‘the big piece’. This blade-shaped ‘tail’ originally
formed a narrow portion of the outer shell of the First Class Pantry on D
Deck.
Everything above the floor of B Deck was part of the superstructure –
lightly constructed, and not of any real material strength to the hull itself. The
forward and aft expansion joints separated those upper decks into three
distinct segments, allowing them to flex and work in a seaway as the primary
hull flexed below, all without imposing excessive load-bearing strain on the
lightweight construction of the superstructure. Although in recent years these
expansion joints have been targeted as a ‘weak spot’ in the structure of the
ship as a whole, in reality they had nothing to do with the ship’s primary hull.
They were merely stress-relieving joints for the superstructure. As such, the
after expansion joint should not be considered to have played a significant
role in the failure of the ship’s primary hull during the breakup.
However, there are some points regarding the after expansion joints that
are worth noting. If the ship had broken cleanly in the vicinity of the No. 3
funnel, the stresses and strains imposed on the superstructure aft of the aft
expansion joint should have been relieved by that feature of the ship’s design.
Yet, the location of ‘the big piece’ was below and astern of the expansion
joint. This means that the catastrophic failure of the Titanic’s primary hull
was ongoing over quite some distance – even abaft the location of the
expansion joint. The failures of the hull in this area, beneath portions of the
superstructure decks that would otherwise not have been suffering from strain,
apparently transferred tremendous stresses onto those sections of the
superstructure, as well.
A hull failure forward, near the No. 3 funnel, and another one aft, in the
area of the reciprocating engine hatch and ‘the big piece’, would have
produced three distinct sections of the ship, exactly as Carrie Chaffee said in
her account. It is also quite possible that this would account for some of the
disparity in statements made by other survivors. In this sort of scenario, the
bow section – from the vicinity of the No. 3 funnel forward – would have
continued to plunge down and forward, disappearing nearly immediately after
the break as some witnesses described. Meanwhile, the third and central
section of the vessel, in the area of the reciprocating engine hatch, would have
been suffering its own ghastly finale. It would seem that it was this portion of
the hull that some survivors saw ‘fall in’, or move in a downward direction,
particularly if they had been watching the superstructure decks collapse as the
hull beneath them was compromised and failed.
Finally, as the stern section came back on a more or less even keel, this
could easily have produced the reverse effect mentioned by some, pushing that
third, central segment of collapsing hull back up before it finally detached
from the stern, crumbling, and went into the sea. This third section of the ship
would most likely have torn itself to shreds at the surface and during the
subsequent plunge to the sea floor. Some of this section’s pieces could have
been quite large, while others ended up being much smaller.
The statements regarding a break in the vicinity of the No. 4 funnel,
particularly Frederick Scott’s statement that it was abaft of that towering
structure, were probably referring to visible failures of the superstructure just
forward of the Second Class Entrance. This makes sense since sections of the
superstructure aft of the Entrance remain, while others just forward of that
point are a nearly-unrecognizable mess, particularly above D Deck.
Significant failures of the superstructure in the vicinity of the No. 4 funnel
would also explain why that funnel toppled, as its base would have been
significantly compromised and not strong enough to withstand the gyrations of
the ship as the stern settled back onto the sea.
After careful examination of seemingly disparate accounts, it thus seems
that the cumulative statements of eyewitnesses as to the nature of the breakup
really mesh quite well with the damage patterns seen on the wreck. It would
appear that the actual failure of the ship was far more involved, infinitely
messier, and much more destructive than many had previously thought. It also
means that much of the ‘missing’ portions of the ship once located between the
bow and stern probably separated at the surface during the breakup.
So far we have considered how the eyewitnesses described the events,
and we have carefully constructed various scenarios as to how their evidence
fits in with forensic evidence and damage patterns seen on the wreck today.
However, we have not so far ascertained whether the break had most likely
started at the top of the vessel or at the bottom. This question is particularly
complicated to answer, as it means accounting for an incredible number of
factors.
Recent forensic examinations by the most technically knowledgeable
historians of the Titanic have produced some interesting results. A computer
model representing a small segment of the ship’s original structure was built;
calculations were then performed to see where stresses were concentrated. It
was calculated that the stresses on the ship’s keel were only about 83 per cent
of the stresses imposed on the strength deck. However, it was also found that
the joints in the bottom structure in the area that they studied may only have
had 42–56 per cent of the strength of the side shell plates, which aided in the
material strength of the top portion of the hull. This suggested that strains
would have exceeded material strength first in the area of the double bottom,
rather than at the strength deck, implying that the double bottom may have been
the first segment of the hull to fail.
130
However, the report was not a complete study of the entire area in
question. The detailed digital model itself focused only on a 42-foot length of
double bottom in the region of Boiler Room No. 1. There was a slight
extension aft of Watertight Bulkhead K (Frame 30 Aft), which separated
Boiler Room No. 1 from the Reciprocating Engine Room. However, the
extension of the model astern of that bulkhead was only included to better
model events as they played out beneath Boiler Room No. 1, and did not give
any data concerning events in the Reciprocating Engine Room. That area of
the ship was involved in the breakup because it was there that one of the
separations of the double bottom actually occurred. The model also
terminated at Watertight Bulkhead J (Frame 18 Aft), which separated Boiler
Room No. 1 from Boiler Room No. 2, forward. As such, events in Boiler
Room No. 2 were not modeled. Again, this may be of importance as the
separation of the double bottom from the bow section was located about five
to six frame spaces forward of that bulkhead, within Boiler Room No. 2. Also
of great importance, the model did not represent the full width of the liner, but
instead was only about 20 feet in width.
131 This may be noteworthy since, as
we shall soon see, the break does not appear to have been simultaneous
across the entire width of the ship.
This specific swath of structure was chosen for scrutiny because it was in
this area that a discontinuity in the depth of the double bottom (gradually
increasing its depth from 63 inches to 76 inches between Frames 25–29 Aft)
indicated a potential weakness. According to strength calculations made by
the panel, the double bottom could not have buckled in any other location
because of its great strength. Conceivably, however, the construction of a
complete digital structure of the vessel in the region in question – from the
forward section of Boiler Room No. 2 through the Reciprocating Engine
Room, and from the strength deck down to the keel and double bottom – may
have produced different results if tested under a variety of conditions.
None of the foregoing is intended to diminish the importance of the panel’s
research or findings; since so much hard work and careful research was put
into the study, it should not be ignored or casually swept aside. However the
findings should be considered preliminary rather than final; the forensic
research is an ongoing and ever-evolving process which is ever improving.
As this study was light years ahead of previous computer models of the ship –
some of which inaccurately included the superstructure as part of the load-
bearing hull, thus contaminating the results – so further studies in the future
may either support or augment the findings from this particular study.
If it is accurate that the break began at the double bottom of the ship, then
the failure may first have occurred between Frames 25–26 Aft, where the split
between the two halves of the once-missing portions of double bottom is seen
today. The marine forensics panel describes this break as a failure in the
ship’s bottom plating, which then successively progressed to other portions of
the structure. Next, the downward pull by the bow section – still attached to
the stern by way of the strength deck and upper side shell plating – began to
place extreme tension upon the interconnecting portions of the upper works.
This would seem a potential candidate for explaining why so much of the
upper decks and superstructure, both fore and aft of the expansion joint in the
superstructure, failed in such a terrifically messy process. However, there
could be other explanations for all of this that turn up in the future.
Indeed, a second and independent research team, working with additional
forensic data from the wreck site and even more data at their disposal,
recently tackled the same subject. They came up with a completely different
scenario, in which the original top-down break theory seemed to best explain
the damage patterns seen on the wreck today.
Looking at forensic investigation on the structural failures of other vessels
might also be of aid to researchers. The hulls of the Leviathan and Vaterland
both gave way under hogging conditions, as their forward hulls smashed down
upon large waves and their stern sections were left unsupported in the air. In
both situations, it was the upper strength decks of each vessel that gave way
first, and the failure then spread to the shell plating on one side of the ship
before the stresses were relieved and the tears stopped. Certainly, these
vessels were not of the same construction as the Titanic. For example, their
divided uptakes, as well as the proximity of other openings in the deck to
those uptakes, have long been a suspect area of weakness. However –
particularly in the Leviathan’s case – special strengthening and re-structuring
had taken place to better combat the stresses, and the hull failure occurred
anyway. A comparison of these incidents to the sinking of the Titanic may
provide some useful data for investigators.
Beyond comparisons to other near-disasters, there is another element to
the breakup of the Titanic that has not been factored into any forensic
investigation to date, save the most recent one that came up with the ‘topdown’ explanation: namely, that the breakup does not seem to have been
perfectly simultaneous across the entire width of the ship. Among the survivor
statements quoted above, there is some evidence of this. Saloon Steward
Percy Keen said that he saw ‘the fore part of the ship break away up to the
foremost funnel, and it appeared to us that when the ship had listed heavily to
port the engines fell out and crashed through the side’. Although he did not
mention the list to port, Saloon Steward Thomas Whiteley mentioned a similar
phenomenon when he said that he got to some wreckage ‘just in time to see the
Titanic blow her sides away. She broke in the middle, her forward end went
down’.
It is also possible that Esther Hart may have referred to this when she said
that ‘the after part with a heavy list, [sic, comma placement] also
disappeared’. Since in technical maritime terminology ‘trim’ refers to a foreaft angle, and ‘list’ would more aptly refer to a port–starboard angle, at first
glance it would seem that she was referring to a side-to-side tip by the stern.
However, we should be careful about assuming that this is definite evidence
on the point, since Mrs Hart was a passenger and could have been unfamiliar
with the correct terminology.
Another survivor, Charles Joughin, was much clearer on the point. He said
that just as he got ‘practically on the side’ of the aft Well Deck as he worked
his way aft, ‘she gave a great list over to port and threw everybody in a bunch
except myself’. In that moment, he ‘clambered on the [starboard] side’. He
was also very clear that it was not a matter of the starboard side going up and
the port side going down; rather, the starboard side ‘was not going up, but the
other [port] side was going down’. He also said that the ship ‘did not return’
from this list to port. This would indicate that the stern section of the ship lost
support on the port side first, in one manner or another, causing the port side
of the stern to drop further than the starboard.
Looking at the remains of the wreck, there may be some forensic evidence
to support this concept. First, the detached pieces of the double bottom do not
appear to have split entirely straight across from port to starboard. The break
point of the stern segment of the aft piece appears to move further aft on the
extreme port side than it does on the starboard side. Similarly the middle
break, from the vicinity of Frames 25–26 Aft, while remaining nearly
perfectly consistent for much of the ship’s width, juts forward an extra frame
for the width of two strakes of shell plating (strakes C and D), just to
starboard of the keel.
Closely related to this subject, two survivors who went into the water
from the forward regions of the starboard Boat Deck – Eugene Daly and Jack
Thayer – also gave detailed information about some movements of the stern in
those final moments that seemed to have gone unnoticed by many others. Both
men specifically referred to a point after the break, when the stern was rearing
back up to something like perpendicular. Daly said: ‘Her stern stuck up high. I
thought she would fall on us as she seemed to be swinging around, but she did
not.’ Thayer said, repeating through the course of three different accounts, that
the stern had ‘pivoted’ around, ‘corkscrewed’ and ‘turned’ and that the
‘propeller, rudder, and all seemed to go right over the heads of us’. Since both
men had left the ship’s starboard side forward, for the ship to turn to such an
extent that the propellers seemed to be above them would require nearly a
180° directional rotation by the stern, most likely in a port (or counterclockwise, if viewing the ship from above) direction. Since most of those
who survived did not mention such a rotation, it very likely did not happen
until the stern was nearing its greatest angle – nearly perpendicular – in the
water. At that point, such a rotation would have been less noticeable in the
dark than if it had taken place when she was sitting at a shallower angle.
Is this rotation at the surface before the final plunge forensically supported
on the wreck? In point of fact, it is, for the stern section is turned roughly 180°
out of alignment with the bow section. While on its own this could have been
explained by other events, the two lines of evidence actually seem to fit
together very nicely.
It is also noteworthy to consider that if the stern section was rotating,
some powerful force must have caused that rotation. Simultaneously, there has
to be an explanation for the relatively quick manner in which the stern stood
up on end in those final minutes. Flooding alone would not have done so,
since any open watertight doors aft of the Reciprocating Engine Room would
almost certainly have closed themselves when incoming seawater lifted their
float mechanisms, which were designed to allow the doors to close
themselves under their own weight. However, investigators exploring the
stern section have seen at least one watertight door at the aft end of the
Reciprocating Engine Room still open. In the carnage of the breakup, the
bulkhead could easily have been distorted to the point that the door didn’t
close properly; it is also possible that debris blocked the path of the door’s
travel, stopping it from closing properly. Even so, with one or more watertight
doors still open in the stern section, it would still have taken time for water to
propagate throughout the Reciprocating Engine Room and into spaces further
aft.
It is also unlikely that the weight of the broken and shattered reciprocating
engines, the majority of which still remained seated at the very forward end of
the stern section, would on its own have so dramatically caused the stern
section to stand on end; their weight would certainly have been a factor in the
physics at work, but it does not seem enough to completely explain the rapid
way in which the stern again stood on end after it had temporarily settled back
onto the sea’s surface.
So what would account for both the rotation as well as the quick forward
dive of the stern section? It is possible that some component of the ship’s
structure was still attached to the bow. Proponents of a top-down break would
suggest the keel and double bottom would be a likely candidate, while those
who believe the ship broke from the bottom up would suggest it might have
been components of the upper side shell plating and/or strength deck.
Of note, the detachment points at the stern of the bow section seem to be
slightly further aft on the starboard side than on the port. Finally, much of the
hull plating on the starboard side of the stern section is peeled away from the
internal decks and splayed out on the seafloor, whereas more of the port hull
remains closely attached to the inner decks. ‘The big piece’ was also a
portion of the starboard hull.
All of this, combined with the previously considered evidence that the
port side structure of the hull gave way first, could indicate that elements of
the ship’s starboard structure were holding the two primary halves of the
vessel together even after the ship suffered its primary and visible hull failure.
This could also have aided in producing the ‘three-piece’ breakup, as tension
would have continued throughout the region. As the bow sank away from the
surface, if any elements of the two primary halves were connected, they
would naturally have pulled on the stern section. A connection on the
starboard side would explain the rotation, and the downward pull of the bow.
When combined with the forward weight of the reciprocating engines and the
flooding of the Reciprocating Engine Room from the ship’s break, all of these
factors could easily have pushed the forward half of the stern section down.
From there, it is most likely that whatever components of the ship’s structure
were holding the two halves together finally parted. At that point, the stern
section was doomed to sinking as soon as the flooding forces overwhelmed
what was left of the stern’s positive buoyancy.
It is even possible that for this portion of the scenario – the late-stage
connection point between the two halves – we may have a bit of supporting
testimony. This evidence came from Saloon Steward George Crowe’s
previously mentioned account, where he said that ‘there was an explosion,
and the aft part turned on end and sank’. Although not a certainty by any
means, it is possible that the close timing of this ‘explosion’ sound to the
stern’s up-ending motion might be evidence of a late connection between the
halves straining or parting.
Even though we do not have all the answers, certain recent theories can be
laid to rest with finality. Some ideas have cropped up that the ship sank more
quickly as a result of the breakup, and that it affected to a large degree the
number of survivors. Yet an open-minded investigation shows clearly that the
breakup was a result of the final moments of the sinking process. One way or
another, that ship was plunging to the seafloor within just a few minutes of that
‘slight but definite plunge’ and the swamping of the Bridge. The end had
arrived. … Had the ship’s hull failed to part, the stern would doubtless have
simply continued to swing up until the flooded bow section pulled the entire
ship under. There is no real reason to believe that the breakup affected the
timing of the ship’s demise, or that any more lives were lost or saved because
of it. Another concept, namely that the bottom-up break would explain why
none of the engineers survived, is also a tremendous stretch. Anyone left so
deep within the ship at that point would have faced certain death no matter
how things played out from the moment of the break. Even if the ship had
remained intact as it sank, they would most likely have been trapped inside
until the spaces flooded or imploded. No matter how events played out, their
fates were already sealed.
Another point begins to emerge with startling clarity: that the breakup was
not evidence of some sort of inherent flaw in the ship’s design or construction.
The expansion joints themselves clearly played no significant part in the
strength of Titanic’s hull or its failure. Indeed, the fact that the liner remained
complete as long as she did while being subjected to tremendous stresses is
remarkable evidence of great strength rather than substandard weakness. The
ship clearly did not sink because it was breaking up, as some have postulated;
rather, the ship broke up because she was sinking – and quickly at that.
As International Marine Engineering said in a preliminary report of the
disaster in its May, 1912 issue:
… It is evident, therefore, that the hull structure of the Titanic was of
exceptional strength.
Without further information, however…, no accurate assumption
can be made as to the longitudinal bending stresses or the shearing
stresses at any section of the hull. The first reports from the survivors
even indicated that there was a breakage or partial rupture, or bending
of the hull, at a point aft of the ‘midship section … In modern ship
design the maximum shearing and longitudinal stresses are
proportioned for cases as extreme, if not more extreme, than that in
which the Titanic was placed, although the Titanic was in about the
worst condition as far as the stresses are concerned that a ship can be
placed.132
Although at the time they had only the vaguest reports available to work from,
they were still able to conclude that not only was the vessel in very nearly the
worst imaginable situation at the time, but that her hull structure ‘was of
exceptional strength’.
So at this time, we are left with a remarkably good, and simultaneously
gnawingly incomplete picture of the ship’s final moments. Questions such as
the exact angle that the ship assumed before it broke, and whether the ship
broke from the bottom up or the top down, are not necessarily thoroughly
answered. Further analysis – both of the historical record and of forensic
evidence – is certainly in order. Hopefully, the research produced in this
appendix will enlighten readers with as much information as we have
available to us at this time. It is also hoped that the information presented here
can be used as a tool for the use of other researchers who will in the future
attempt to discover exactly how those horrifying final ten minutes of the
Titanic’s maiden voyage played out, answering questions to which we, at this
time, seem to have only incomplete answers.
Appendix O: ‘J. “Brute” Ismay’?
In the decades since the Titanic’s sinking, White Star Chairman Joseph Bruce
Ismay’s role in the disaster has been clouded in myth, speculation, distortion
and falsehood. It is natural human tendency, perhaps, to look to assign blame
to one or more individuals for unspeakable tragedy. At times, criticism of a
person’s, or persons’, actions seems to be justified. Yet all too frequently –
particularly in the case of the Titanic – individuals have been singled out for
disproportionate blame or censure. Such is the case with J. Bruce Ismay.
Any male passenger who had the audacity to survive the sinking of the
liner faced a certain stigma upon their return home. In an era of chivalry, when
one of the worst insults that could be hurled at a man was to call his behavior
‘ungentlemanly’, how could surviving men justify climbing into a lifeboat
when women and children were left behind on the ship? It was easy to draw a
comparison between their survival and the behavior of notables such as John
Jacob Astor or Major Archie Butt, who were not saved.
Yet in most cases, this criticism was simply unwarranted. In many of the
situations where male passengers saved themselves, the circumstances
surrounding their departure would lead a reasonable researcher to conclude
that if a certain man had not taken a particular opportunity presented to him,
then his life would simply have been added to the list of the lost.
Simultaneously in many of those cases, the action to save his own life did not
apparently cause the loss of another person. In such situations, simply
deciding to seize the opportunity, when it did not cost anyone else their life,
would not seem to be an arguably immoral one.
However, the survival of one man was seen, by many, to be both
unconscionable and unforgivable: that of J. Bruce Ismay, Chairman of the
White Star Line. As the company’s Chairman, many felt that Ismay simply
should have let himself perish that night. This conclusion seemed to be
reinforced when Ismay’s wireless messages from the Carpathia gave the
impression that the Chairman was trying to ‘slip away’ from American
authorities and make a safe return to England. Things got worse when it
became clear, during the formal Inquiries, just how well-informed Ismay had
been of the ship’s navigation during the voyage, and of the proximity of ice on
the day of the disaster. Ismay’s own attempts to downplay his knowledge of
the ship’s navigation, of ice in the area, and of certain other matters backfired
badly. It was a bad situation, and it got worse.
The press was quick to pounce upon Ismay as the real villain of the
Titanic disaster. Such condemnation of Ismay seemed particularly in evidence
within the papers under the control of William Randolph Hearst. Things got
ugly, and quickly … it even got to the point where some of the press cleverly
transformed his name into ‘J. Brute Ismay’, perhaps one of the worst insults in
an entire string of horrendous personal attacks.
Ismay’s public reputation never recovered from the events of that voyage.
In some films and documentaries, and even some books on the subject, Ismay
has at times been portrayed accurately, but is often presented very badly.
When the portrayals are bad, they run the gamut from simply ‘oily’ to ‘nearly
villainous’. The less overt of these negative portrayals show Ismay as sitting
more or less in the background, prodding others on in decisions they weren’t
comfortable with; from these one can almost see Ismay twisting the corners of
his mustache in a generally slimy way – the stereotypical sneaky, nefarious
businessman out to make a profit even if it risked lives. From the worst of
these, one can nearly envision Ismay up on Captain Smith’s shoulders like
some enraged baboon, pummeling the Commander’s head while screaming for
him to go faster, faster … faster! Some have even suggested that the decision
to move the ship forward after the collision was entirely at Ismay’s behest,
and that his pressure to continue was partially to blame for the speed with
which the ship sank.
However, it is vitally important to consider the facts at hand instead of
rushing to judgment. First, let’s consider Ismay’s actions prior to the collision
to see where criticism may or may not be warranted.
When the Olympic and Titanic were being built, did Ismay or anyone else
in the White Star Line attempt to cut corners in the provision of lifeboats or in
the quality and safety of the ships’ construction in order to turn a better profit?
While frequently implied, not a single shred of evidence has ever been
presented to support such an allegation. Indeed, the opposite would seem to
be true. For example, Ismay was perfectly willing to include newly-designed
davits capable of holding more lifesaving craft, in case the British Board of
Trade increased lifeboat regulations. When the Board of Trade reached its
decisions not to change the regulations, there was simply no need to go
beyond those rules by what might have seemed a perfectly ridiculous amount
– at least, by what might have seemed perfectly ridiculous before the sinking
of the Titanic.
1
Regarding the construction-quality of the Olympic and Titanic, it is
absolutely laughable to imply that Ismay was trying to shave so close to the
bone with the liners’ construction costs that he had them built to a deficient
standard. Everyone from both White Star and Harland & Wolff knew at the
project’s outset that each of these new ships would be examined down to the
minutest detail by Board of Trade surveyors. Those surveyors would visit the
ships literally hundreds of times during construction. They, and the
Government body they represented, had great authority in improving the ships’
design or build-quality in any places where they conceivably might have
believed them deficient. Long before the first rivet was even driven, the
Board had to approve every plan for the liners’ design.
In other words Ismay and Lord Pirrie would almost certainly have known
that any collusion between them to deceive the Board of Trade and its
surveyors by using slipshod materials or substandard designs could, and
probably would, have backfired badly and very publicly. This would have
resulted in additional expenses and delays to rectify the problems – as well as
a great deal of negative publicity for the prestigious companies and the men at
the helm of these companies.
The short of it is this: the two companies were in business to make money.
If Harland & Wolff had been exposed as a slipshod construction firm, their
business quite simply would have dried up. Orders would have gone to other
shipyards. If Ismay or the White Star Line had been exposed for colluding
with the builders to build defective ships, passengers would take other ships.
Why would Ismay have risked being exposed in a scandal over such a small
percentage of the overall expense, if indeed he even had the clout to have
attempted to do so? It simply makes no sense. No, that would have been a
terrible, unjustifiable, risk to take for the saving of a few thousand pounds
here and there.
Finally, the North Atlantic was a frightening place to venture in even the
best-built craft. Indeed, the toughness of the Olympic was well proven during
at least two violent storms in 1912, and during her collision with the Hawke
in 1911. This was at a point when her hull design and watertight subdivision
were nearly identical to that of the Titanic, and did not reflect post-disaster
modifications and upgrades. She was not built as a substandard ship. For his
own part, Ismay seemed content to leave most of the technical matters in the
capable hands of the shipbuilding company, and was far more content burying
himself in the intricate details of the ship’s proposed amenities and comforts.
If Ismay had any question on the safety of his ships, he would not have
entrusted his life to the Titanic on its maiden voyage, and neither would he
have entrusted the safety of his family to the Olympic the year before. All of
this really goes to show that during the phases of design and construction,
Ismay was not involved in some sort of conspiracy to build super-fragile
vessels that could fall apart at the drop of a hat.
Finally, the White Star Line was financing the ships through the issuance
of bonds; contrary to popular belief the Olympic and Titanic venture was not
being bankrolled by J. P. Morgan’s deep pockets.
2 Due to the methods through
which they were financed, it was vitally important to the company that the
liners remain profitably employed on the North Atlantic; the discovery of any
structural deficiencies would have required lengthy and expensive shipyard
refits, during which time the liners would not be earning revenue.
3
What about during the voyage? Was there any evidence of wrongdoing by
Ismay during the trip? It was apparently perfectly normal for Ismay to be kept
informed of how his liners were doing while he was aboard; especially
during the maiden voyages of each new ship would he have been particularly
anxious to ensure that they met, or exceeded, expectations on all fronts. Ismay
did admit to talking to Chief Engineer Bell when the ship was at Queenstown.
They discussed how much coal Titanic had on board, the need to economize
it, and when the ship would dock in New York. They also discussed “driving
her at full speed” for a few hours sometime on Monday or Tuesday.
4
After the fact, Ismay clearly felt that minimizing his personal knowledge
of the ship’s performance during the crossing would help his public image.
However, that in itself is no evidence of wrongdoing on his part during the
voyage. This was more of an attempt at after-the-fact ‘spin control’, and it
ended up failing miserably.
What of the conversation reported by Elizabeth Lines, held between Ismay
and Captain Smith on Saturday, April 13? While many have scoffed at or
downplayed Lines’ account in an attempt to justify Ismay, is such a rabid
defense really called for? Nothing in her recollections of the conversation
seem to be evidence of anything really Machiavellian on Ismay’s part. Rather
her report seemed to describe an enthusiastic monologue by the Chairman to
the Captain on how well the ship was doing. The machinery was proving
itself well, the boilers were bearing the steam pressure, and the ship would
make it into New York ahead of schedule, Ismay concluded. Nowhere is there
a shred of evidence that Ismay was trying to force Captain Smith to drive his
ship at a speed the Captain was uncomfortable with. At sea, the Captain is the
absolute authority; Captain Smith had nothing to fear from Ismay, particularly
since he was so close to retirement. Lines merely recalled that he nodded in
affirmation of Ismay’s statements. Indeed, if Ismay had chosen to exert any
untoward pressure on the Captain, why would he have done so in a public
room in front of passengers, and in rather unguarded tones at that?
As far as the question of whether there was an attempt to beat a record or
not, the answer depends entirely on what record it is implied they were trying
to break. As far as taking the Blue Riband, that was entirely out of the
question. The Titanic simply was not capable of taking the prize from the
Lusitania or Mauretania. From Ismay’s words about ‘beating the Olympic’,
however, it seems quite clear that Ismay was hoping that they would make a
faster trip than the Olympic did on her maiden voyage, getting into New York
on Tuesday evening rather than Wednesday morning. Yet the potential for a
Tuesday night arrival was well-known to many passengers and crew even at
the time of the ship’s departure and through the voyage, and was recorded in
personal correspondence even before the disaster.
5 While the possibility was
reportedly in doubt to some extent after Saturday’s run was posted, Ismay
remained confident of it on Saturday, and that hope was revived in others after
Sunday’s run was posted. Passengers like the Thayers and Wideners heard
directly from Ismay that the ship’s speed would be increased during the
remainder of the voyage; this really went a long way toward proving that
Ismay had a certain level of ‘inside information’ about the progress that the
ship was making.
Whether there was hope of breaking Olympic’s record or not, and no
matter how much Ismay knew, driving a ship at full speed in good weather
was entirely common for both Captain Smith and any other Captain then on the
Atlantic.
6 Looking at the service records of numerous other liners, both before
and after, it is clear that whenever possible, Commanders were eager to make
the best possible speed, especially in case poor weather delayed other
portions of their voyage. The final approach to New York, off the Grand
Banks, was frequently foggy, and conceivably fog could have forced a
reduction in the ship’s speed on Monday or Tuesday. Despite the high speed
of the Titanic on Sunday, April 14, we know that the she was not even making
her maximum speed up to the time of the collision. Her five auxiliary boilers
had not yet been lit, let alone applied to the engines. She was traveling faster
than at any other point in the voyage, but the speed she was then making was
not her maximum.
On Sunday, it is clear that Captain Smith and his officers took the
warnings of ice rather seriously. They kept the lookouts well-informed on
what to look out for and when; the Captain and officers were also thoroughly
prepared to slow the ship at the slightest deterioration in visibility. There is
also good circumstantial evidence that Captain Smith did not fully retire
before the collision, as he was apparently dressed when he arrived on the
Bridge very shortly after the impact. Perhaps he might have been involved in
something in his personal Chart Room, or was in his cabin resting without
retiring. It is possible that he intended to be close at hand during the night, in
case there was any deterioration in visibility or if ice fields were spotted and
he was needed on the Bridge.
The fact that Smith showed the Baltic’s warning to Ismay is also well
established. However, if Smith was hesitant to maintain his speed despite the
warnings, and Ismay pressured him to do so, no clear evidence of this has
ever come to light. While the absence of evidence is not enough to say for
certain that Ismay did not make some sort of suggestion or recommendation
that the ship’s high speed be maintained, historians must be careful not to jump
to that conclusion. There is no evidence of ‘Ismay the Terrible’ peering over
Smith’s shoulder all that afternoon and evening, careful to make sure there
was no reduction in speed and threatening to fire him at the least hesitation or
objection. Instead, Ismay spent time socializing with fellow passengers all
day on the decks, in the Smoking Room, in the Restaurant, and in the
Restaurant Reception Room; he and Captain Smith both seemed wholly
confident.
What about Ismay’s actions after the collision? To begin with, there is no
evidence that Ismay exerted undue influence on Captain Smith to re-start the
engines after the collision. In fact, the timing of things seemed to indicate that
Ismay arrived on the Bridge at about the time that the engines were rung off
for good, not at the time that they were re-started. Ismay did meet up with
Chief Engineer Bell on the Grand Staircase, but it was a brief conversation,
held after the engines had stopped, and the two men parted company headed in
different directions.
Subsequently, Ismay was seen with the Captain and other senior personnel
on the Grand Staircase. Once the order to load the lifeboats had been given,
Ismay toiled to help convince passengers to board them, and he also tried to
instill a sense of urgency in members of the crew. Many who may not
otherwise have been saved boarded lifeboats through the persuasion of Ismay.
He was so thoroughly engaged in this effort that he never returned to his
stateroom during the loading of the boats. He was still on the deck when
Collapsible C was being filled, just a short time before the ship took her final
plunge.
Up to that point, none of Ismay’s decisions seem to have been openly
reprehensible. But what of his decision, in the end, to save his own life in
Collapsible C? Ismay was absolved of any wrongdoing in preserving his own
life at the formal inquiries into the disaster. The typical portrayal of events
surrounding the loading of that boat is a quiet one. However, there is some
evidence that things at Boat C may have been more chaotic, and in the end
more violent, than is commonly accepted. For example, Jack Thayer – then
standing on the starboard Boat Deck – recalled:
There was some disturbance in loading the last two forward starboard
boats. A large crowd of men was pressing to get into them. No women
were around as far as I could see. I saw Ismay, who had been assisting
in the loading of the last boat, push his way into it. It was really every
man for himself.
7
However in his early account, dated April 20, 1912, Thayer only mentioned a
crowd in the vicinity of that collapsible. He did not recount seeing Ismay
‘push his way’ into the boat. This could have been merely an omission in his
early recollections, or it could have been a mistake in his later one.
Obviously, if Ismay had pushed his way into Collapsible C, his testimony
about the scene at the time could not be considered trustworthy.
8
Whatever the truth, Ismay did find his way into Collapsible C.
9
 Yet, so did
four stowaways and First Class passenger William Carter. There is nothing in
the historical record that shows that any officer registered a complaint about
Carter or Ismay boarding. Indeed, it seems that at that point they were having
difficulty finding women to place in the craft, and it was lowered away.
Murdoch seems to have had no problem in allowing male passengers to leave
the ship in the lifeboats he was filling.
10
If he or any of the other officers had
any feelings upon seeing Ismay board the collapsible, their emotions were not
recorded and can only be speculated on. What seems a likely conclusion is
that no one died because Ismay boarded the Collapsible. The court was
actually much harder on William Carter – and unfairly so – for his boarding
the collapsible at the same time as Ismay.
If it did no harm for Ismay to save himself, did it do any good? Certainly
his wife and children would have thought so upon hearing of his rescue. While
Ismay may have regretted the way his reputation was assailed after the
disaster, he was able to continue with his life and his eventual death was
mourned by many.
11
Appendix P: Buried at Sea
One of the most confusing aspects of Carpathia’s rescue of the Titanic
survivors involves the burials conducted from her while she was at sea.
Carpathia lacked the facilities to preserve and store the bodies until the
arrival in New York, necessitating this sad task. But how many individuals
were actually buried at sea, and who were they?
The eyewitnesses estimated that anywhere from four to eight victims
underwent this service. Rostron testified that three bodies had been brought
aboard, with another dying a few hours later, and that those four individuals
were buried at sea.
1 Survivor Lawrence Beesley believed that four bodies
had been taken from the boats, with four additional men dying during the day,
for a total of eight being buried at sea.
2
 But who was correct?
Beesley’s numbers appear to be more of an estimate, while Rostron
seemed certain that just four individuals were buried at sea. He testified that
three dead men were taken from the boats, and that another man was brought
aboard alive, but that he died at 10:00 a.m. on April 15. Rostron said that the
four bodies were buried at sea around 4:00 p.m. that same day. It is true that
Rostron’s testimony varied slightly from the Senate Inquiry to the British
Inquiry. In the former he said, ‘I think he [the man who died] was one of the
crew’, while in the latter, he stated that the body was that of ‘a passenger we
took up from the boat’. Yet Rostron insisted at both inquiries that it was four
men who were buried at sea, and that they had a list bearing their names.
Unfortunately, he did not have the list with him when he testified.3
Supporting evidence for Rostron’s count of four comes from Carpathia’s
Chief Purser Ernest Brown, who stated that four bodies were buried at sea.
4
Carpathia passenger Fred Beachler stated that two bodies had been brought
aboard, as well as a survivor who died after a few minutes aboard the rescue
ship, with all three being buried at sea on April 15. He also said that a fourth
died and was buried at sea the following day.
5 James Bisset, Carpathia’s
Second Officer, concurred, although he said that they had picked up ‘four men
who had died of exposure in the lifeboats’, and that all four were buried at
sea at 4:00 a.m. on Tuesday, April 16. Bisset may simply have confused the
time, as Rostron said the men were buried at 4:00 p.m. on April 15, not 4:00
a.m. the following morning.
6
While Rostron’s inquiry testimony varies slightly, and the accounts from
the other witnesses all vary somewhat in detail, each of these individuals
agreed that four men were buried at sea. Furthermore, there is strong evidence
that three were dead when brought aboard, and that a fourth – near death when
recovered – perished a few hours later. In his recollections, Rostron varied as
to whether this man was a crewman or passenger.
Can the four individuals who were buried at sea be identified? A press
account from an unnamed source published soon after the disaster said that the
three dead bodies brought aboard were those of First Class passenger
William Hoyt, Third Class passenger David Livshin [traveling under the alias
Abraham Harmer], and Bedroom Steward Sidney Siebert, and that all three
were buried at sea the morning of April 15. The man said to have died aboard
Carpathia and been buried at sea the following morning was Able Bodied
Seaman William Lyons.
7
The details in Fred Beachler’s account differ from this unnamed source,
but he did agree on the names of the individuals buried at sea. He said that
two of the men were already dead when brought aboard, and that another was
still alive, but died a few minutes later. He listed these individuals as William
Hoyt, David Livshin, and Sidney Siebert, and said that all three were buried
at sea the morning of April 15. Beachler also claimed that William Lyons was
alive when brought aboard, before dying, and being buried at sea the
following day.
8
An unnamed Carpathia steward gave an interview following the arrival
in New York, and was yet another person who specifically identified these
same four individuals as the ones who were buried at sea. However, there are
still more variations in the time and details relating to the burial, as the
steward claims all four were buried at sea on Tuesday, April 16; he also
claimed that Siebert and Lyons were dead when brought aboard, while Hoyt
and Livshin were alive, and ‘lived but a few minutes after’.
9
If those four men were indeed the individuals buried at sea from
Carpathia, an examination of the eyewitness accounts should reveal who – if
anyone – was the individual who died aboard the rescue ship. First, Fifth
Officer Lowe stated multiple times in the course of his testimony that William
Hoyt, who he had rescued from the water, died in Boat No. 14. He also said
that he ‘landed’ everyone, including Hoyt’s body, safely on Carpathia. Hoyt
was in a bad state when pulled from the water, bleeding from his nose and
mouth.
10 There seems to be little doubt that Hoyt had actually died in the
lifeboat, as Able Bodied Seamen Joseph Scarrott, Frank Evans, and Saloon
Steward George Crowe all concurred with Lowe’s statements regarding
this.
11
Bedroom Steward Sidney Siebert and Able Bodied Seaman William
Lyons were among the men pulled from the water into Boat No. 4. First Class
passengers Emily Ryerson and Marian Thayer both said that two men died
aboard this boat after being pulled from the water.
12 Elizabeth Eustis and
Martha Stephenson, in an account shared with Colonel Gracie, stated that two
men pulled into the stern of Boat No. 4 died, and their bodies were taken
aboard Carpathia.13
Quartermaster Perkis’ testimony concurs with this, as he said that two men
pulled from the water died in the boat, although he believed that they were a
fireman and a steward.14 Lamp Trimmer Samuel Hemming said that two men
died in Boat No. 4, specifically identifying one as Lyons, and the other as
either ‘a steward or a fireman’.
15 Trimmer Dillon testified that when he
regained consciousness in Boat No. 4, ‘Lyons [was] lying on top of me, a
seaman, and a passenger lying on top of me dead.’16 Bedroom Steward
Cunningham testified that he and ‘a mate’ – a reference to Siebert – leapt
overboard at the same time, and that his mate had died right after being pulled
aboard No. 4. He stated that two dead bodies were taken aboard Carpathia.17
When all the evidence is considered, it seems clear that two men died aboard
Boat No. 4, that these two men were indeed Able Bodied Seaman Lyons, and
Bedroom Steward Siebert, and that their bodies were taken aboard
Carpathia.
Another body was said to have been taken aboard Carpathia, from Boat
No. 12. Colonel Gracie testified that when the survivors atop Collapsible B
were picked up by No. 12, Lightoller transferred a ‘lifeless body’ into the
latter. Gracie said that he tried to revive the man, ‘rubbing the temples and the
wrists’, but that when he tried turning the man’s neck, it was stiff, and rigor
mortis had set in. Gracie believed that this man was dressed like a member of
the crew, but didn’t say why, and recalled that he had gray woolen socks. Boat
No. 12 was so crowded after rescuing some of the men from Collapsible B
that Gracie was forced to sit on top of the body until Carpathia picked them
up.18 Lamp Trimmer Hemming provides some confirmation of this, as he
testified that he was told that there was a dead body atop Collapsible B when
Boats Nos 4 and 12 rescued the survivors from it, although he did not see this
for himself.
19
The identity of the body taken from the upturned Collapsible and aboard
Carpathia is open to question. Colonel Gracie, for unknown reasons, felt that
the man was dressed like a member of the crew. In his famous New York
Times interview, Harold Bride said that one man taken from Collapsible B
was dead, and that as he went to climb aboard Carpathia up the Jacob’s
ladder lowered to Boat No. 12, he saw that the ‘dead man was Phillips’.
20
However, Bride, when testifying in the Senate Inquiry, changed his story,
saying that he had only been told that Senior Marconi Operator Jack Phillips
died on Collapsible B, and was later buried at sea from Carpathia, and had
not witnessed this for himself.
21
In his book, Colonel Gracie states that the body he tried to revive while in
Boat No. 12 was definitely not that of Phillips. He reported that when
speaking with Lightoller, the Second Officer agreed with him that the body
was not that of the Senior Marconi Operator.
22
In Lightoller’s Senate Inquiry
testimony, he says that Bride told him that Phillips had been aboard and died
on the boat, but it is clear that Lightoller never saw this for himself.
23
In his
1935 book, Lightoller’s memory must have been becoming faulty, or he was
altering facts for dramatic effect, as he vividly describes Jack Phillips being
aboard Collapsible B, and telling everyone the position of the various ships
they had contacted by wireless, and when they could expect a rescue, before
succumbing to the cold and dying. He also claims that Phillips’ body was
taken aboard Boat No. 12 at his insistence.
24
It is clear from Gracie, and the other 1912 evidence, that the man on
Collapsible B who called out which ships were on their way was Harold
Bride, not Phillips. Lightoller’s 1912 testimony contradicts his latter-day
statements that he saw Phillips aboard Collapsible B, and that the body
transferred off that boat was Phillips. Lightoller’s later statements are clearly
unreliable in that regard.
There is little to no evidence that Jack Phillips’ body was ever aboard
Collapsible B, or recovered. In fact, the only first-hand evidence that suggests
that he was comes from Saloon Steward Thomas Whiteley, who may have
been Bride’s source for this story. In a press interview, Whiteley claimed that
Phillips had been aboard Collapsible B with him, that he died, and was taken
aboard Carpathia, where they ‘tried to revive him with brandy and all that,
but it was too late’. Whiteley claims that four bodies were buried at sea from
Carpathia, including ‘one sailor, two firemen, and Phillipee [sic]’. The
reporter noted: ‘It was first believed that this man was a cabin passenger, but
Whitley [sic] declares it was Phillipee [sic].’25 There is not a single other
witness who in 1912 claimed Phillips’ body was recovered, and his name
was never mentioned by any source aboard Carpathia as being one of the four
bodies buried at sea. It seems reasonable to conclude that Whiteley was
simply mistaken in his identification, or that if Phillips had been aboard
Collapsible B, his body was not recovered.26
If the body recovered from Collapsible B was not Jack Phillips, then who
was it? The article containing the interview with Whiteley states that the body
in question was believed to be that of a ‘cabin passenger’, until Whiteley
suggested otherwise. Of the four persons named by Carpathia witnesses as
having been buried at sea: William Hoyt, Sidney Siebert, William Lyons, and
David Livshin, aka Abraham Harmer, only Livshin is unaccounted for. There
is no credible evidence from Titanic survivors of any more than four bodies
being taken aboard Carpathia from the lifeboats.
Since there is strong evidence that a body was taken aboard the rescue
ship from Boat No. 12, after it had been transferred into it from atop
Collapsible B, it is reasonable to assume that the body in question was that of
David Livshin. Unfortunately, few specific details about how Livshin died are
known. Given the strong evidence from those in Boats Nos 14 and 4 to suggest
that William Hoyt, Sidney Siebert, and William Lyons were all dead when
taken aboard Carpathia, it would seem logical to conclude that if any of the
four individuals buried at sea were alive when taken aboard the ship, that it
would have to have been Livshin.
However, Colonel Gracie’s efforts to revive the individual taken from
Collapsible B into Boat No. 12, saying that rigor mortis had already set in,
and subsequently having sat on the body until Carpathia picked them up, runs
counter to this assumption. Captain Rostron varied on whether the man he said
died aboard his ship was a crewmember or passenger, but in the British
Inquiry, he did state it was a passenger.
27
In the press account with Thomas
Whiteley where he claims Jack Phillips was on Collapsible B, it is also
mentioned that the man that Carpathia’s crew attempted to revive was thought
to be a ‘cabin passenger’.
28 Both of these tidbits could support Livshin being
the man who died onboard the ship, but only if Gracie was somehow mistaken
when stating he was dead. One must wonder though, if the body taken aboard
Carpathia was clearly dead as Gracie claimed, why would the crew have
attempted to revive the man with brandy as Whiteley said they did?
Another person who, it is sometimes claimed, had been taken aboard and
buried at sea from Carpathia is Third Class passenger Edvard Lindell.
29
Lindell died in Collapsible A, as witnessed by August Wennerström, and as
described in the narrative. Like the claim that Jack Phillips was buried at sea
from Carpathia, this claim also runs counter to the evidence. In his account
and notes on the disaster, Wennerström says nothing to suggest that any of the
victims from Collapsible A were taken aboard Boat No. 14 when it picked up
the surviving occupants in that boat. In fact, his account suggests that most of
the people who died in the boat were rolled overboard to lighten the load, as
it was thought the boat was sinking.
30
It is likely that Lindell was among those
tossed into the ocean; his body was not in the collapsible when it was found
adrift nearly a month after the disaster, although a ring inscribed with the
names of both he and his wife was found in the bottom of the boat.
31
 Similarly,
neither Fifth Officer Lowe, nor any of the occupants of Boat No. 14 said
anything about taking on bodies from the swamped collapsible when the
survivors were transferred out. Lowe himself said: ‘I am not here to worry
about bodies; I am here for life, to save life, and not to bother about bodies’
32
There is absolutely no evidence that Lindell’s body was taken aboard
Carpathia.
When all the evidence is examined, it strongly suggests that four bodies
were buried at sea from Carpathia, and that those individuals were Hoyt,
Siebert, Lyons, and Livshin. However, aside from the number buried at sea,
the exact details and circumstances become cloudy. Examining the evidence
reveals a large number of inconsistencies and striking contradictions
regarding which of these four men were still alive when taken aboard the
ship, if any of them were, and even as to what time of day the burial at sea
was conducted, whether they were all buried at the same time, etc.
For example, it was alternately claimed that:
• Hoyt, Livshin, and Siebert were dead when brought aboard, and that
Lyons died on the Carpathia later;
• that Hoyt and Livshin were dead when brought aboard, and that
Siebert and Lyons died at varying times after being brought aboard;
• and that Siebert and Lyons were dead before being brought aboard,
and that Hoyt and Livshin were the ones who died after being brought
aboard.
Claims relating to the burials at sea are equally contradictory:
• All four men were buried at 4:00 p.m. on April 15;
• all four men were buried at sea at 4:00 a.m. on April 16;
• three men were buried on April 15, with one being buried the
following day;
• and all four were buried on April 16.
Keeping this in mind, all that can be safely concluded is that four men were
buried at sea from Carpathia, and that one may or may not have been alive
when brought aboard, dying shortly afterwards. While this individual is
frequently identified as Able Bodied Seaman Lyons in published works, the
evidence does not allow for any conclusive statements to that effect. In fact,
the witnesses in Boat No. 4 strongly support that Lyons was dead before being
taken aboard the rescue ship. The evidence relating to Siebert being dead in
Boat No. 4 is not as strong as it is for Lyons, but then again, nobody in the
boat claimed he was alive when they were rescued. William Hoyt certainly
appears to have died in Boat No. 14, and the evidence relating to this is
persuasive. That leaves David Livshin, but if Colonel Gracie’s account is
accurate, it is hard to see how he could have been alive when taken aboard
Carpathia.
Eyewitness accounts could have been further confused due to the fact that
coincidentally, one Carpathia passenger, Franz Willwerth, died while aboard
the ship. It is unclear whether Willwerth, who was being deported from the
United States, died on the outbound portion of Carpathia’s voyage, or during
the return to New York with the survivors. It is also unclear whether he was
buried at sea, although it seems probable that he would have been. If so, it is
possible that at least some witnesses believed he was a Titanic victim, which
further confused the numbers and details of who was buried at sea, and
when.
33
In the end, the existing evidence supports the conclusion that only four
bodies were taken aboard Carpathia from the lifeboats and later buried at
sea. The evidence also allows for the identification of those four victims.
However, the evidence does not allow for any definitive statements regarding
which of these individuals, if any, were still alive when brought aboard, or
for the exact details of the burial (or burials) to be determined. Unless further
evidence is uncovered, the exact details of the burials at sea will remain a
mystery.
Appendix Q: Trapped ‘Like Rats?’
Over the years, one of the most horrifying and oft-told stories regarding the
sinking of the Titanic was that many of her Third Class passengers were
deliberately locked below and left to die a horrifying death. However, how
close do these tales come to reality?
To begin with, one must understand that the entire liner was carefully subdivided to keep passengers of any given class from entering areas set aside
for passengers of another class. Particularly important was keeping Third
Class passengers separate from Second and First, in accord with immigration
laws intended to prevent the spread of infectious disease. There were a series
of printed notices or signs to deter passengers from leaving their own
designated sections of the ship. On the open decks, there was also a series of
railings with low, hinged gates, which kept passengers within their allotted
space.
1 Within the ship, there also seem to have been some tall Bostwick
gates subdividing lower deck passenger sections. As much of the
accommodations deeper within the ship were interchangeable between First
and Second, or between Second and Third classes, these gates may have been
useful in helping to maintain delineation among these accommodations.
2
There were a number of reports from surviving Third Class passengers of
being kept behind locked gates, preventing access to the lifeboats; these
included accounts from Daniel Buckley and Olaus Abelseth. However, their
reports almost universally give very little indication of where these incidents
occurred. It can not be over-emphasized that all Third Class passengers had
easy access to certain open decks, such as the forward Well Deck, the aft Well
Deck, and the Poop Deck. Common areas like the General Room and Smoking
Room were located aft on C Deck, just a few steps away from the open Well
Deck, and many Third Class passengers were no doubt easily aware of how
to get to these locations. The working passageway on E Deck, termed
Scotland Road, was regularly used by both crew and Third Class passengers.
3
On the night of the disaster, large numbers of Third Class passengers housed
forward were seen moving aft along Scotland Road, and many subsequently
made their way to the aft Well Deck and Poop Deck.
In light of all this information, many of the reported incidents of Steerage
passengers being kept behind locked gates may actually have taken place on
the open decks separating the aft Well Deck from the Second Class deck,
rather than within the ship. A few accounts do seem to indicate locked gates
within the ship, and these accounts are not easily dismissed as exaggerations
or newspaper reporters’ inventions. However, situations such as these seem
to have been few and far between, and by and large they would not have
seemed to prevent the vast majority of Third Class passengers from reaching
the open decks.
Far more dangerous to Third Class passengers was the rather complex
layout of the ship’s lower decks. According to Seaman Poingdestre, there
were no signs or notations for Third Class passengers that would have told
them what direction they should go to get to the upper decks and lifeboats.
4
Even worse, many of those aboard the ship could not speak or read English.
As a result, if Third Class passengers became disoriented or their typical
routes for movement through the ship’s inner compartments were in some way
or another unavailable, they may have had a difficult time escaping the ship’s
interior spaces; however, it must be remembered that such situations were not
necessarily evidence of deliberate attempts to keep them below. In fact, a
number of accounts have survived which indicate stewards who came across
bewildered Third Class passengers and led them out of the ship’s interior via
alternate routes.
Thus, it seems very unlikely that many of the ship’s Steerage passengers
were deliberately locked down within the ship’s lower decks and left to
drown ‘like rats’, as the saying goes. However, once they reached the aft Well
Deck and Poop Deck areas, Third Class passengers did face a very real
hurdle: getting up to the lifeboats, which were in First and Second Class
portions of the Boat Deck. Evidence indicates that many of them managed to
find their way toward the lifeboats, particularly during the last hour of the
disaster; indeed, crowds of Third Class passengers were reported in those
areas of the ship. Some of these passengers no doubt survived because they
took the initiative to pass barriers and ignore notices on the open decks.
Others seem to have been perfectly content to stay in their portions of the ship
and wait to see what happened.
Interestingly, there is some evidence that a good-sized group of Second
Class or Steerage passengers made a last-ditch effort to get out of their own
portions of the ship and into First Class regions, perhaps in an attempt to
reach the last collapsible lifeboats as they were loading. Archibald Gracie,
then forward on the starboard Boat Deck, recalled:
In five minutes the water from the deck below reached the boat deck
on which we stood, and the sailors seemed not to have time to launch
the boat; so Mr. [Clinch] Smith and I decided to hurry toward the
stern; but we had only gone a few paces when, to our amazement, we
saw men and women in a solid mass come up from the decks below,
steerage or second class perhaps, facing toward us. But even here
there was no panic, though appalling death was evident in the near
future.
5
Based upon Gracie’s position on the Boat Deck, it is clear that this human
wave of Second or Third Class passengers had come up from below via the
First Class Entrance and forward Grand Staircase. But this leaves the
question: where did they come from before that? Obviously, not from still
further below, as everything below the Boat Deck and Promenade Deck in the
vicinity of the forward First Class Grand Staircase was then flooded. Very
likely, many of these passengers had come through barriers astern, and then
moved forward along the Promenade Deck – either along the outer deck or
within the public rooms – before climbing to the top level of the Grand
Staircase. In other words, their presence on the forward Boat Deck at that late
stage seems to be less evidence of their having been trapped below as it was
an attempt to make their way toward the last-remaining lifeboats from
locations aft.
Wherever they had come from, their prospects at that time were quite
bleak, and most of them turned and headed aft again along the Boat Deck,
piling up against the rails separating the First Class spaces from the
Engineers’ Promenade and Second Class areas aft. Most of them would have
been plunged into the sea when the ship made her bow-first plunge moments
later. Even for these hapless individuals, at least they were spared the horror
of being trapped within the ship as it sank.
6
It is thus clear that most of the Steerage passengers had the opportunity to
at least make it to the open deck before the liner sank. Many – either assisted
by crew members, or forging forth on their own – made a break for the
lifeboats, and at least some of these did so in time to save themselves. Others
remained behind, not willing to venture away from their designated areas, or
were kept back by a few crewmen who felt it was their duty to keep them
away from the lifeboats. The simple fact that the lifeboats were located only
in First and Second Class regions of the ship, and that many of the Steerage
passengers did not speak English and could not understand verbal
instructions, seems to have been enough to do the rest of the job. One of the
Titanic’s legacies would be that lifeboats would be provided for all of those
aboard subsequent liners.
7
Consequently, there is a lot of evidence that the majority of Third Class
passengers did make it on deck before the ship sank. However, an analysis of
the bodies that were recovered after the disaster shows that a lesser
percentage of Third Class [Steerage] passenger bodies were found than those
of other groups that can be shown to have been on deck at the end. Of the
people who died in the sinking, 23% of the bodies were recovered. Of the
First Class passengers, most of whom were likely on deck at the end, 32% of
the bodies were recovered. Third Class bodies were only recovered at a rate
of 14%. This could be explained by at least a certain percentage of them not
being able to reach the outside decks at the end.8
It could also simply mean
that fewer of them had accessed or actually wore lifebelts.
But, the simple fact is that there is no evidence of a systematic
‘extermination’ of Steerage passengers in the historical record. There simply
was not enough time, organization, or lifeboats, and Third Class passengers
bore the brunt of the effects from these circumstances. Legends of locked gates
and ideas of crewmen shooting passengers below decks have been long
overblown. While the historical record clearly shows some unfortunate
incidents, these were apparently few and far between.
Appendix R: The Californian Affair
Over the years, the subject of the Leyland Line steamship Californian and its
proximity – or lack thereof – to the Titanic has become one of the most hotly
debated topics within the Titanic community. It is not within the purview of
this volume to delve deeply into this emotionally charged subject; however,
the present authors feel that this volume would be lacking if at least some of
the facts were not touched upon. One of the greatest problems surrounding the
Californian incident is its great complexity. Here we will attempt to boil the
controversy down to its essence.
The Basics
As the Titanic was foundering, some of her officers, crew and passengers
recalled seeing the lights of another vessel on the horizon; while their
descriptions of what sort of ship they thought it was differed, most agreed that
the ship was off the port-bow quarter of the Titanic. According to
Quartermaster Rowe and Fifth Officer Lowe, the Titanic stopped with her
bow facing in a generally north-northwest to north direction. In an attempt to
contact the other vessel, those on the Titanic used Morse lamps and a number
of distress rockets;
1 by and large, these were described as white distress
rockets by those aboard the White Star liner.
According to then-standing Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea,
Article 31, Number 3, distress rockets were defined as: ‘Rockets or shells,
throwing stars of any colour or description, fired one at a time, at short
intervals.’ By all accounts, the Titanic’s rockets and the manner of their firing
complied with that regulation. Sadly, Titanic’s officers were not able to make
out any definitive reply, and the attempts were abandoned about the time that
Fourth Officer Boxhall left in Boat No. 2, and Quartermaster Rowe turned out
to render assistance at Collapsible C.
The Californian was stopped in the ice for the night. Her Captain, Stanley
Lord, had made the prudent decision not to try to pick his way through the
danger until daylight. During the night, the officers standing watch on the
Californian saw a liner approach from a generally easterly direction, and
then appear to shut out some of her lights and stop. A while later, some of
those aboard the Leyland liner saw the ship fire about eight rockets – one of
them, Apprentice James Gibson, specifically said that as he watched through
binoculars, he ‘observed a white flash apparently on her deck, followed by a
faint streak towards the sky which then burst into white stars’.
2
Captain Lord had by that point gone to nap on the Chart Room settee, and
was informed that the other vessel had fired a number of ‘white rockets’.
3
Lord told his men to try to contact the other ship via Morse lamp, but did not
ask the wireless operator to be awakened to investigate the situation further.
The men on the Bridge discussed this mysterious liner; they watched,
commenting on the ship’s appearance and feeling that she looked rather odd –
Officer of the Watch Stone even remarked to Apprentice Gibson that the ship
looked ‘queer’, and that she seemed to ‘have a big side out of the water’.
4
Eventually, the other ship disappeared from the horizon.
A little while later, the men on the Californian saw three white rockets to
the south, which they believed were coming from a different vessel than the
one which they had observed and which had subsequently disappeared from
sight.
5 Chief Officer Stewart came on duty at 4:00 a.m.; a half-hour later, he
had a discussion with Captain Lord on the subject of what had transpired
during the night. Lord told Stewart to wake up the Marconi Operator, and the
news was quickly received that the Titanic had sunk. The Californian later
arrived at the scene where the Carpathia was recovering Titanic’s lifeboats,
but by that point the work had already been done, and the Leyland liner
eventually resumed course for Boston, Massachusetts.
The Californian on the morning of April 15, 1912.
Subsequently, men from the Californian were questioned at the American
and British Inquiries into the disaster. The investigators concluded that the
Leyland liner could have easily pushed through the ice and helped to rescue
the Titanic’s passengers and crew, had she started out with the firing of the
first rockets. Captain Lord eventually lost his position with the Leyland Line,
although he was subsequently able to find employment with other steamship
companies.
Conclusions
From the basic facts, it seems apparent that the men on the Californian saw
the Titanic and the rockets that she fired. It seems that even on the night of the
disaster, there was some question in the minds of a number of the participants
as to what sort of signals they were, however. Later, when Captain Lord was
asked if – on that night – he felt that the rockets were distress calls, or
company signals, Lord made it very clear that he had not been sure, and that
he had been awaiting confirmation on the point from his officers.
6
As long as there was some doubt that they might not be company signals,
however, someone should have done something to try to determine which of
the two they were. Waking up the Californian’s wireless operator would have
been the simplest thing to do, and would likely have quickly resulted in the
reception of some of Titanic’s distress signals – the two ships were well
within wireless range of each other, and there is no reason to believe that if
the set was turned on, they would not have heard them. However, nothing of
the sort was done.
Without bringing in the question of whether or not the Californian itself
could have reached the Titanic in time to help save any lives – which is a
debatable question – one thing stands out above anything else. According to
the Merchant Shipping Act of 1906, it was a misdemeanor to fail to respond
to distress signals; if there was any question as to whether the rockets were
distress rockets or company signals, a thorough investigation by someone
should have been made. The failure to completely investigate the situation
was a misdemeanor in and of itself.
Because of this simple fact, those who attempt to defend the Californian’s
inaction like to imply that there were other, so-called ‘mystery’ ships in the
vicinity or in between the two vessels that night, and many candidates to fill
this role have been advanced over the years. A complicated ballet of three or
four – why not ten? – ships has been expounded in defense of the
Californian’s inaction. Despite the astronomical odds against these theories,
and a complete lack of proof that identifies any particular ship as having been
the alleged interloper, defenders of the Leyland liner and her Captain rabidly
defend the concept. Yet even if one were to accept this extraordinary
proposition, the simple fact remains: rockets, beyond a doubt Titanic’s, were
seen by those on the Californian, and were not investigated.
Attempts have also been made to obfuscate the timeline of events aboard
the Titanic, and the amount of time which separated the two vessels’ clocks.
All of this has been done to help ‘prove’ that the rockets seen by those on the
Californian did not belong to the Titanic, and/or that the timing of events
observed by witnesses on each ship respectively do not line up. In doing so,
attempts have been made to snatch at any little thread which might indicate a
non-traditional timeline of events aboard the Titanic. This evidence has been
carefully compiled and presented in the pages of books, trade journals and
web sites; however, while these claims may sound somewhat convincing
when considered on their own, the larger body of evidence on the subject
shows a very different picture.
The simple fact is that it is known about how long it took for the Titanic
disaster to play out. With little exception, it seems that the collision took place
at 11:40 p.m. and that she sank at about 2:20 a.m. – a time of about 2 hours
and 40 minutes. Many survivor accounts are startlingly incomplete; if one
attempts to push events too far up in the timeline, this tends to create gaps – in
many cases large ones – later on in the disaster. At times, where more than
one account from a single survivor is available, the recollections change with
each telling. It seems more likely that these variations are most often the result
of omissions in certain accounts. One must carefully study all the available
accounts from a single survivor before jumping to any conclusions.
It is far more important to attempt to objectively reconstruct a timeline
without any pre-conceived notions and to let the pieces fall where the
evidence places them. That is how the timeline in this volume was prepared:
a careful balance of everything … survivor time estimates … the level of
flooding reported by survivors at certain times … reported changes in the trim
and heel of the ship … and the like. The difference between the clocks of the
Titanic and Californian had nothing to do with our independent analysis.
Once we finished constructing the Titanic timeline, however, we then went
back and compared notes with what was reported about the Californian, and
the correlation was startlingly close.
It is clear that at the time of the collision and throughout the sinking, the
Titanic’s clocks were running 2 hours and 2 minutes ahead of New York
Time, and 2 hours and 58 minutes behind Greenwich Mean Time. This is
supported by both navigational evidence and survivor testimony; it was also
first suggested by perhaps the strongest and most prominent defender of
Captain Lord.7 As far as the time that Californian’s clocks were keeping, this
was based on her position at noon that day, 47° 25’ W.
8 Her clocks were
running 1 hour and 50 minutes ahead of New York Time, or 3 hours and 10
minutes behind Greenwich Mean Time.
9
In other words, there was a
difference of about 12 minutes between clocks on the Californian and clocks
on the Titanic, with the Californian’s clocks being behind those on the
Titanic.
With this time difference in mind, the similarity between the times of the
Titanic’s collision, the time she started and finished firing her rockets, and the
time that she sank all appear to be a close match to the times that those on the
Californian saw the steamer they were watching stop, fire rockets, and
eventually disappear. As a result, the present authors feel that there is good
reason to suspect that the Titanic and Californian were watching each other
directly, without the presence of a ‘mystery steamer’ or ‘mystery steamers’ in
between them.
However, there is a tremendous caveat. Could the Californian have
reached the Titanic before the Titanic sank? Could she have saved more lives
because of her close proximity to the scene? By any reckoning she was far
closer than the Carpathia and any of the other ships who attempted to respond
to Titanic’s distress calls. Yet, Californian’s lifeboats could only hold 218
people.
10 Given the startlingly short amount of time that people could survive
in the icy water, the presence of ice in the vicinity which may have blocked
direct access to the Titanic, and the likely amount of steaming time the
Leyland vessel would have needed to reach the White Star liner, it seems
likely that her efforts would not have been able to save everyone aboard, if
anyone. However, if even one additional life had been saved – or even if the
Californian had simply attempted to carry out a rescue without success – then
those efforts would have been worthwhile and would have cleared her
officers of any reproach. In the end, we will never know for sure how many
might have been saved, simply because no attempt was made.
11
It is regrettable that Captain Lord has unjustly served as a scapegoat over
the years, when the responsibility for the actual accident cannot in any way be
placed on him. Perhaps more questionable than any mistakes in judgment or
lack of action by Captain Lord and his crew, however, are their obfuscations
and attempts at covering up that they had seen rockets or been near Titanic
after the Californian arrived in Boston. In the end, there are no villains in the
Titanic’s story as a whole, or in the story of the Californian; only humans in
unusual circumstances who made mistakes as they tried to pick their way
through the disaster. However, the simple fact that Titanic’s rockets were
sighted by the Californian, and that further action should have been taken, is
an unavoidable one.
R
POSTSCRIPT
hoda Abbott was hospitalized following the Carpathia’s arrival in New
York, and she was one of the last survivors discharged from St Vincent’s
Hospital. Physically and mentally taxed, and suffering from burns to her
thighs,
1 contusions on her legs,
2 and frostbite to her hands and feet, it took a
significant period of time for her to recover. She suffered from respiratory
problems and asthma for the rest of her life. Rhoda was the sole female
survivor to be rescued from Collapsibles A and B, or from the water.
Rhoda struggled with grief and feelings of loss following the death of her
teenaged sons Rossmore and Eugene in the sinking. She felt that she no longer
had any purpose in life. She frequently wrote to Emily Goldsmith, whom she
had befriended during the maiden voyage. In a letter she wrote in 1914, Rhoda
spoke of Eugene, saying: ‘I know he is safe in God’s keeping, but I miss him
so much’. On a postcard sent that same year, she said: ‘I have so envied you
with Frankie [surviving], and me losing both mine, but I trust that they are
better off out of this hard world’.
Abbott, who had separated from her husband prior to the Titanic disaster,
married her lifelong friend George Williams in December 1912. By all
accounts, her marriage was one of convenience, rather than being born out of
any great love. The couple decided to move to Jacksonville, Florida, since
they believed the warmer climate would ease her respiratory problems. In
1928, despite Rhoda’s fear of the ocean, the couple undertook a sea voyage in
moving to London, so that her husband could settle his late father’s estate.
They planned to return to the United States when this family business was
concluded.
While in London, George suffered a massive disabling stroke, but Rhoda
remained faithfully by his side. She cared for him until his death in 1938.
After his passing, Rhoda wanted to return to the United States; she had
become an American citizen when her husband was granted citizenship in
1919, had been issued a U.S. passport, and planned to return home as soon as
she could sell her husband’s property in London.
Unfortunately, with the outbreak of World War II, Great Britain passed the
Financial Restriction Act, which made it impossible for her to move her
assets out of England during the war. Rhoda periodically renewed her
passport, but the financial situation, and a desire not to ‘travel during war
time conditions’, prevented her from returning to America. She eventually
gave up on her dream of returning to the U.S. and spending her final years
there with her friends; she instead remained in England until her death in
1946. Her closest living relative at the time of her passing was a niece, who
she was not close to.
Researcher Robert Bracken noted that following the sinking, Rhoda
appeared to have developed a ‘fatalistic’ attitude that prevented her from
enjoying life beyond the disaster; he also noted that she led an unfulfilled and
sad life after the loss of her sons.
3
* * * * *
After Colonel John Jacob Astor’s death, Madeleine Astor inherited an annual
$300,000 income from his $5 million trust fund, and was allowed the use of
his mansions – the first on the corner of 65th Street and Fifth Avenue in New
York,
4 and the second his estate in Newport, R.I. – under the condition that
she forfeit her inheritance and usage if she remarried.5 Colonel Astor left his
oldest son Vincent the majority of his fortune, with a sizeable trust fund going
to his daughter Ava. Both children were the product of his first marriage,
which ended in divorce in 1909.
Madeleine gave birth to a son on August 14, 1912, four months to the day
from when Titanic struck the iceberg. She named him John Jacob Astor, after
his father.
6 Madeleine married her childhood friend, William K. Dick, on June
22, 1918, in Bar Harbor, Maine. Her remarriage attracted a lot of attention.
Dick was a banker, Vice President of the Manufacturers Trust Company, and
part owner of the Brooklyn Times. As per Colonel Astor’s will, Madeleine
was forced to forfeit all of her inheritance from him after the wedding.
However, her son John still received a $3 million trust that was held until he
turned 21.7
Madeleine and William Dick had two sons before divorcing on July 21,
1933, in Reno, Nevada. Madeleine was no stranger to controversy or scandal,
since she was just 18 when she had married 47-year-old Colonel Astor. Her
divorce from Dick created another scandal, not just because she married for a
third time quickly afterwards, but also because she had apparently been
having a relationship with ‘Italian middleweight pugilist’ Enzo Fiermonte
prior to her divorce. Fiermonte and Madeleine married on November 27,
1933, just four months after her divorce from Dick. After a rocky marriage
involving multiple separations, Madeleine and Enzo divorced on June 11,
1938, ‘on the grounds of extreme cruelty’. Madeleine passed away from a
heart condition on March 27, 1940. She was just 46 years old.8
Madeleine Astor and her son John Jacob Astor V in late 1925.
* * * * *
Following his ordeal, Frederick Barrett signed on to the Olympic as a
fireman. On May 25, 1912, Senator William Alden Smith was given a tour of
Titanic’s sister ship by Captain Herbert Haddock, as part of the Senate
Inquiry. Captain Haddock happened to mention that one of the firemen aboard
had been on Titanic, and Senator Smith, who was chairing the inquiry, went to
see him in one of the boiler rooms; he wanted to gain a better understanding of
what the conditions had been below deck when the collision occurred.
Barrett’s testimony was taken down at this time.
9 He testified in more depth at
the British Inquiry.
Upon returning home, Barrett made it a priority to visit his sister in the
Potteries. Unlike some of the other survivors who had been thronged by wellwishers and bystanders when they returned home, Barrett received a quiet
reception. At that time, people in the town were completely unaware of the
role he played in the Titanic disaster.
10
* * * * *
Joseph Boxhall suffered from pleurisy in the wake of the disaster. He
testified in both the Senate and British Inquiries. Soon after returning to
England, Boxhall joined the Adriatic, serving as Fourth Officer. He joined the
Royal Navy Reserve as a Sub-Lieutenant, and in 1915, was promoted to
Lieutenant. During World War I, he was commissioned to serve aboard the
battleship Commonwealth, and was then dispatched to Gibraltar, where he
commanded a torpedo boat. After World War I, Boxhall was promoted to the
rank of Lieutenant Commander.
Boxhall married his fiancée Marjory in 1919, but the couple never had
children. In May 1919, he returned to the merchant service with the White Star
Line, serving as Second Officer on the Olympic. During the 1920s, he served
aboard a number of vessels sailing to Australia, as well as the United States,
and Canada. Following the Cunard-White Star merger, Boxhall, by then a
senior officer, served aboard Berengaria, Aquitania, Ausonia, Scythia,
Antonia and Franconia.
Boxhall had been promoted as high as Chief Officer by the end of his
career, but despite years of loyalty and exemplary service, he was never given
his own command in the merchant service. Boxhall decided to retire in 1940,
after four decades at sea.
Despite his reluctance to speak about Titanic, Boxhall served as technical
adviser for the film version of A Night to Remember. He and Herbert Pitman
both attended the premiere of the movie. Boxhall also got reacquainted with
Walter Nichols at the premiere, who he had known both before and after
Titanic.
In the 1960s, Boxhall’s health began to fail. Despite this and the fact that
he was soft spoken and did not like talking about the disaster, in 1962, he
granted a radio interview to the BBC discussing the sinking.
11 The last of
Titanic’s surviving officers, Boxhall passed away in 1967 at the age of 83. As
per his last wishes, Boxhall was cremated, and his ashes were scattered over
the location of his distress coordinates, 41° 46 N, 50° 14 W, which is where
he always maintained Titanic had sunk. Clearly, Titanic had remained a major
part of his life, even more than 50 years later.
* * * * *
After the disaster, Margaret Brown helped establish the Titanic Survivor’s
Committee, which she personally chaired. On May 29, 1912, she presented
Carpathia’s Captain Rostron with a silver loving cup, and every crew
member still on board the Cunarder with a medal. This was done on behalf of
the survivors in commemoration of the ship and crew’s exemplary rescue
efforts.
Margaret wrote detailed press accounts relating her experiences during
the sinking; these were published in newspapers in New York, Denver, and
Paris. Her exploits and the strong character she displayed in Boat No. 6
gained her some publicity and notoriety, which she used to her advantage. She
was deeply invested in women’s rights, labor and workforce issues,
promoting literacy and education for children, and preserving historical sites.
In 1914, Brown was named as a candidate for a Senate seat for the second
time, but stopped campaigning when her sister married a German baron. AntiGerman feelings were high in the lead-up to, and during, World War I; she felt
her sister’s marriage would generate undue controversy.
After the outbreak of World War I, Brown worked with the American
Committee for Devastated France to rebuild areas behind the front lines
which had been devastated in the fighting, and aided wounded soldiers.
Margaret was awarded the French Legion of Honour for her good citizenship,
including activism and philanthropy, in the United States. Near the end of her
life, Brown became an actress, and performed in stage productions.
When Margaret’s husband, James Joseph ‘J.J.’ Brown, died in 1922, the
couple had been separated for a number of years. ‘J.J.’ did not have a will.
Margaret and her two children subsequently entered into a long and bitter
five-year dispute, before her husband’s estate was finally settled. Brown did
not communicate with her children following the disagreement. Ironically, due
to lavish spending, when ‘J.J.’ Brown died, he did not have as much of his
fortune left to pass on as one might have expected.
At one point, Brown announced that she was engaged to Duke Charto of
France. Less than 48 hours later, she recanted, saying: ‘Me marry that old
geezer – never. Give me every time the rugged men of the West, the men of
Europe – why, in France there are only perfumed and unbathed Continental
gallants – in England only brandy-soaked British gents.’ She then proceeded
to go on a world tour.
Margaret Brown died of a brain tumor on October 16, 1932 in New York,
where she had been working with young actresses. She was 65. Contrary to
popular myth, Margaret Brown was not an outcast among members of upper
class society, and was accepted more than is commonly portrayed. For
example, Vincent Astor and his family were ‘intimates’ of Margaret, ‘whom
she entertained at her 76-room New York home’. Nearly all portrayals of her
in plays and movies are inaccurate, and do not reflect the real life Margaret
Brown.
Brown became more famous following her death than she ever had been in
life. In the 1930s, Denver Post reporter Gene Fowler penned a folk tale
loosely based on her life. This tale led to a highly fictionalized story about her
being written for a romance magazine. This story led to radio broadcasts in
the 1940s, and eventually to the Broadway play The Unsinkable Molly
Brown, which was made into a movie by MGM in 1964.
These stories perpetuated myths about Margaret, although by all accounts
she was a larger-than-life personality in reality. Brown actually gave herself
her nickname, when she remarked to a reporter following the Titanic disaster
that the reason for her survival was ‘Brown luck … I’m the unsinkable Mrs.
J.J. Brown’. The name has stuck to this day.
12
* * * * *
After the arrival in New York, Harold Bride was taken to the hospital; he
later went to the home of Walter E. Jarvis, his uncle, so that he could spend
time with his family while he convalesced. During his stay, Bride had the
opportunity to get some bed rest, which aided the healing of his frostbitten
foot, and sprained ankle. While he was at his uncle’s house, Bride was visited
by Marconi Operator Harold Cottam, whom he had befriended aboard the
Cunard liner as they worked the key together on the way to New York. Bride
was surprised to discover how well received the account he wrote and sold
to the New York Times was. The article had led to him being considered one
of the heroes of the sinking, a notion Bride was not comfortable with.
Bride’s family had gotten word of his survival, and a New York Times
reporter came to his uncle’s house. The newspaperman bore a message from
the Marconi Operator’s father, via their London correspondent. He found
Bride sitting in a chair enjoying a cigarette, with both feet bandaged. Bride’s
parents had sent their love, and said they were proud of him. Bride told the
reporter: ‘I’m glad that they have heard I’m safe. It’s awfully good of you to
bring this message up here to me.’
The reporter told him that the New York Times would gladly transmit any
reply he wanted to send, and Bride laughed, saying: ‘Tell the Times that I am
very grateful. I would like to send a message, or rather two messages, if I may
be permitted.’
His relatives laughed. They knew that the second message he alluded to
would be for Mabel Ludlow, the young nurse who Bride – just 22-years-old at
the time – was engaged to. The reporter agreed, and Bride dictated a message
to his father: ‘Quite safe. Uncle Walter and Aunt Millie and Esther looking
after me. One foot badly sprained, the other frostbitten. Both improving. Am
leaving for Washington for Senatorial Inquiry Monday morning. Home as soon
as possible. Love to all. HAROLD.’ Next, Bride dictated a message to
Mabel: ‘Safe and well. One ankle sprained. Home as soon as possible.
Fondest love. HAROLD.’13
Bride testified in both the Senate and British Inquiries, and often gave
contradictory stories between the two hearings. Whether this was due to any
intentional evasiveness on Bride’s part, or genuine difficulty with his memory
– common after traumatic events – is unknown. During the Senate Inquiry,
Bride was so physically exhausted that he had to be propped up in a chair
with pillows, with his legs elevated.
After returning to England and recovering, Bride fell for another woman,
Lucy Downie, and broke off his engagement to Mabel. His first job after the
sinking was as a telegraphist in a London post office. Bride finally returned to
sea as a Marconi Operator aboard the Medina in August 1912, the German in
December 1912, and the Dover and Namur during January and February
1913. Bride was assigned to a relay station on the coast of Scotland in 1914.
Bride left the employ of the Marconi Company sometime during 1916.
Between 1918 and 1919, Bride ended up serving as the wireless operator
aboard the ship HMS Mona’s Isle. Harold and Lucy were married on April
10, 1920, and the couple eventually had three children. Bride retired from the
sea for good in 1922. His final assignment had been to serve as a wireless
operator aboard the Cross-Channel Ferry.
Bride sought obscurity from that point on, and rarely discussed Titanic.
The whole experience had been extremely traumatic, and Bride’s thoughts
often dwelled on Jack Phillips, whose loss he felt deeply. Eventually, the
publicity and recognition that went with being a well-known Titanic survivor
got to Bride, and he moved his family to Scotland to avoid unwanted attention.
People who remember the family from their days in Scotland described Bride
and his wife as being extremely private.
Bride quietly lived out the remainder of his days working as pharmacist in
Scotland, before working as a traveling salesman for a London
pharmaceutical company. A heavy smoker, he died of lung cancer on April 29,
1956, at the age of 66. Bride’s niece stated that her uncle was an avid ham
radio operator in his later years, staying up late, and contacting operators all
over the world.14
* * * * *
Eugene Daly suffered frostbite to his feet and legs in the disaster. He credited
his overcoat with having helped keep him warm enough to survive the night,
and thereafter refused to travel without it.
15
When Daly reached New York, he sent home a very brief letter to his
mother Catherine in Ireland, letting her know that he and his cousin were safe.
The correspondence was a mastery in understatement: ‘Dear mother; got here
safe. Had a narrow escape but please God, I am all right, also Maggie. I think
the disaster caused you to fret, but things could have been worse than what
they were.’16
Having lost everything in the sinking, Daly called on New York City’s
Mayor Gaynor on April 22, 1912 to plead for assistance from the Red Cross
Relief Fund. Eugene recovered sufficiently enough to take part in the war
pipes competition in Celtic Park, Queens on May 19, 1912, although he didn’t
win. Music remained an important part of his life after the sinking.
17
Daly filed a claim in the Limitation of Liability hearings on January 4,
1913, seeking damages of $10,600 for his lost property, and for ‘personal
injuries to the lower half of my person, which injuries are of a permanent
nature’. He testified in front of Judge Julius M. Mayer in the United States
District Court as part of the same hearings on June 25, 1915. As with all the
survivors seeking compensation from the White Star Line,
Eugene Daly in later life.
Daly was not awarded the amount of money he sought.
18 Daly lived and
worked in New York and New Jersey following the disaster, and continued to
help financially support his younger sister Maggie and his family in Ireland.
He was drafted into the military during World War I, marrying his fiancée
Lillian prior to leaving. The couple later had one child, Marion. Eugene
returned to Ireland in 1921 because his mother was ill, and thought to be
dying. While aboard the ship, Daly was in a ‘state of extreme panic’. He was
unable to eat or sleep, and constantly paced the decks. His mother recovered,
but Daly, too afraid of going back on a ship, decided that he and his wife
would remain in Ireland.19
Daly stayed in his homeland until his wife passed away. Eventually he
moved back to the United States, flying this time, and subsequently lived with
his daughter and her husband in the Bronx. He remained friends with Bertha
Mulvihill, although they had a falling out shortly after the sinking over false
rumors that Daly had received money to speak publicly about the disaster.
Daly reacted indignantly, feelings were hurt, and the two stopped speaking to
each other. A few years later, Daly and his wife were in Providence, and tried
to visit Bertha, but she would not see him.
20
 Daly passed away on October 30,
1965. He was 82 years old.
* * * * *
After the disaster, Frederick Fleet testified in both the Senate and British
Inquiries. He appeared to have been extremely uncomfortable while testifying,
had difficulty articulating his responses, and reacted defensively to many of
the questions, at one point asking: ‘Is there any more likes to have a go at
me?’ The examiners commented that they felt sorry for him, and told him:
‘You have given your evidence very well, although you seem to distrust us
all.’21
Fleet returned to the sea, serving as both a Lookout and Able Bodied
Seaman. He served aboard the Olympic, but eventually left the White Star
Line and worked for other companies, including the Union Castle Line.
Evidently, he returned to the White Star Line again at some point, as he related
that ‘the Olympic was my last ship…’ Fleet left the sea for good in 1936; this
was during the Depression years, when the passenger trade was hit hard, and
jobs on the liners were hard to come by. He found employment at the Harland
& Wolff shipyards, which had built Titanic and her sisters. Later, he worked
as a shore Master-at-Arms for the Union Castle Line.
In his later years, Fleet sold newspapers on Pound Tree Road in
Southampton for the Southampton Echo, where many people remember him.
He said that he sold papers ‘to while away the time’. In the 1960s, Sylvia
Lightoller – Charles Lightoller’s widow – met Fleet in the park, and the two
reminisced.22 During this time period, Fleet and Ed Kamuda, the future
President of the Titanic Historical Society, began corresponding with each
other via letters, and became good friends. Fleet remarked at how he had been
poor most of his life, saying that ‘from the time I started … I was no better off,
pay in those days was very poor, I was always without money, always in
debt’.
At the time, Fleet and his wife Eva lived in a house with her brother.
Tragically, when Eva passed away on December 28, 1964, Fleet’s brother-inlaw evicted him. In his last letter to Kamuda, Fleet sounded desperate: ‘My
dear friend. Just a few lines to let you know I am in deep trouble. I have lost
my wife, also I am leaving my house, the place where I have been living.
There is only my brother in law and myself, we cannot agree. From yours
sincerely, Fred Fleet.’23
Despondent and severely depressed, Frederick Fleet hanged himself on
January 10, 1965. He was 76 years old.24 Fleet was buried in a pauper’s
grave in Holly Cemetery, but the Titanic Historical Society was able to raise
enough donations to place a headstone in his memory in 1993.
* * * * *
Following the arrival in New York, Sir Cosmo and Lady Duff Gordon began
receiving criticism for surviving in a lifeboat that had just 12 persons aboard,
while making no attempt to return and rescue anyone else. When it was
discovered that Sir Cosmo had paid each of the crewmembers in the boat £5
to replace their kits, it gave rise to rumors that the Duff Gordons had either
bribed their way into the boat, or bribed the crewmembers into not returning.
There is no evidence to support either accusation. Regardless of this, the
couple’s reputation suffered as a result, Sir Cosmo’s even more so.
Both testified in the British Inquiry, and in so doing were the only
passengers to give evidence to the court. At the inquiry, Lord Mersey had a
balanced approach to the Duff Gordon situation, lambasting the false rumors
that were being spread and some of the lines of questioning that Sir Cosmo
had been subjected to, while still pointing out that the occupants in Boat No. 1
did nothing to rescue people from the water:
The very gross charge against Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon that, having got
into No. 1 boat he bribed the men in it to row away from the drowning
people is unfounded. I have said that the members of the crew in that
boat might have made some attempt to save the people in the water,
and that such an attempt would probably have been successful; but I do
not believe that the men were deterred from making the attempt by any
act of Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon’s. At the same time I think that if he had
encouraged to the men to return to the position where the ‘Titanic’ had
foundered they would probably have made an effort to do so and could
have saved some lives.
25
Following the British Inquiry, the couple returned to their business; over time,
things regained a sense of normalcy. Lady Duff Gordon continued to find
success as a dress and lingerie designer, creating styles under the professional
name of ‘Lucile, Ltd’. She was called a ‘genius’, and her gowns were
pronounced the ‘final dictum of fashionable attire on the Continent and in the
United States’. She was well-known among high society in London, Paris, and
New York, and was a celebrity of sorts.
Despite his wife’s successes, Sir Cosmo rarely accompanied her on
business. He was described as ‘a handsome but reserved Scotsman who …
detested reporters and especially loathed the tabloid coverage her Ladyship
attracted’.
26 Some of his wife’s fashion designs were considered risqué, and
generated a lot of attention and followers.
Lucy had shops in New York, Paris, and an establishment in Hanover
Square, London, which largely attracted a clientele of British nobility. She
was widely credited with revolutionizing the dress of Englishwomen,
advocating shorter skirts and more revealing, yet tasteful, designs.
27
In 1922, the couple was forced to close Lucy’s London and Paris
establishments, due to difficulty keeping up with the growing competition. Sir
Cosmo passed away in London on April 20, 1931, after an extended illness.
He was 69 years old. In 1932, Lady Duff Gordon completed and released her
memoirs Discretions and Indiscretions. Between 1932 and 1935, Lucy’s
business collapsed, and she fell on hard times. She was living in a nursing
home when she passed away from pneumonia on April 20, 1935, exactly four
years to the day after her husband died.28
 She was 72 years old.
* * * * *
Prior to the disaster, Colonel Archibald Gracie, a published historian, had
spent 7 years researching and writing The Truth About Chickamauga. This
book was about the Civil War battle his father had fought in. While he found
the experience of writing the book rewarding, it was mentally and physically
taxing. He journeyed alone, leaving his wife Constance and their daughter
Edith at home. Gracie claimed that he had taken his subsequent trip to Europe
to ‘gain much-needed rest’, and ‘get it off my mind’, but that was only part of
the story. In fact, Gracie had gone to Europe at the urging of a medical
specialist, who had seen him approximately six weeks prior to the disaster,
and thought that the rest and relaxation would be beneficial for his well
being.
29 Gracie, a diabetic, was experiencing health concerns. He had minor
surgery shortly before the sinking, and was ‘not in thoroughly restored health’
at the beginning of the maiden voyage.
30 The Colonel liked to stay physically
active while traveling, but owing to his exhaustion and ongoing recovery from
surgery, he spent most of his time during the voyage socializing and reading.
Despite his traumatic experiences and having suffered from hypothermia,
Gracie experienced relatively few immediate aftereffects. Unlike some of his
fellow survivors saved from Collapsible B, he did not suffer from frostbite.
However, once aboard Carpathia, Gracie discovered that he had received a
blow on top of his head while struggling in the water; he also found inflamed
cuts on both of his legs, as well as bruises on his knees. He did not feel any of
these injuries prior to being rescued. His whole body was sore to the touch
for several days.
Since Gracie was an amateur historian, he spent a good deal of the
Carpathia’s voyage to New York City discussing the sinking with survivors,
and had in-depth conversations with Second Officer Lightoller and some of
the other officers. Following the arrival in America, Gracie gave a detailed
and accurate account which was widely published in the press.
31
 Once he was
safely home, the Colonel wasted no time in beginning to write about his own
experiences, and the disaster in general. He spent the spring, summer, and fall
of 1912 corresponding with as many Titanic survivors as he could, and
compiling a manuscript for publication. Gracie hoped to set the record
straight about the true events of the sinking. The result of his labors is one of
the most detailed accounts written by a Titanic survivor.
By December 1912, Gracie had largely completed his book. He planned
to continue correcting the proofs of the manuscript, and to write a final
chapter dealing with the causes of the disaster and the lessons it taught.
32
Sadly, Colonel Gracie never had an opportunity to put the finishing touches on
the volume, as his health took a sharp turn for the worse. Gracie was reported
to have been ‘haunted by his memories of the wreck of the Titanic and never
completely recovered from the shock of his experiences in that disaster’. His
wife and daughter were said to have been very ‘fearful for him for some
weeks past’. However, it was reported that Gracie was well enough to be up
and about until shortly before his death; as late as Thanksgiving 1912, he
attended a reception at the Hotel Gotham which his wife and he gave to
introduce their daughter, Edith Temple Gracie.
On December 2, 1912, Colonel Gracie fell into a diabetic coma, passing
away on December 4, at the age of 54. During his final hours, Titanic still
weighed heavily on Gracie’s mind, and his last words were reportedly ‘we
must get them all in the boats’. While his death was caused by his disease, his
family members and physicians felt that the true ‘cause was the shock he
suffered last April when he went down with the ship and was rescued later
after long hours on a half-submerged raft’.
33 Even though his book wasn’t
completed, it was published posthumously as The Truth About the Titanic in
May 1913. Like any book, the text contains some mistakes, but Gracie’s work
is still considered a classic and essential read, and an excellent reference for
students of the Titanic disaster.
34
* * * * *
Robert Hichens testified in the Senate Inquiry, where he denied stories
regarding some of his reported behavior and conduct in Boat No. 6. He
specifically denied that he was asked to return to rescue people struggling in
the water.
35
 He later testified in the British Inquiry.
Hichens and his wife Florence, living in Southampton, had six children
between 1908 and 1925. Contrasting with the unflattering portrait painted of
him by other survivors, Hichens’ family loved him dearly. They were so
worried when they heard that Titanic sank that it was feared his wife, who
was then pregnant, would miscarry. Hichens’ father wrote a letter reflecting
on the family’s grief, until they had learned of his survival: ‘Oh the tears that
has [sic] been shed here only God knows. No rest only from this morning then
the tears of joy.’
Margaret Brown was not held in high regard by the family. Hichens
remarked that Brown ‘could have walked into any lifeboat. …Why oh why
did she have to walk into mine?’ Hichens returned to sea, and work often kept
him away from home. His life following Titanic was so shrouded in mystery
that many of his own children did not know the details, and his grandchildren
were initially unaware of his role in the Titanic disaster.
Researcher Phil Gowan, with much effort, was able to piece together
Hichens’ post-sinking life. He apparently spent time in Durban and
Johannesburg, and was rumored to have received remuneration from the
White Star Line. During World War I, Hichens served in the Royal Navy
Reserve, and then served on smaller ships for the next two decades. He spent
time in China and Hong Kong in the 1920s, and family stories suggest his
activities there may have included gun running and piracy.
Hichens fell onto hard times in his later years, and was away from his
family during much of the 1930s. In late 1933, he had a disagreement with an
acquaintance over the sale of a motor vessel, and blamed him for the woes he
was then experiencing. Drunk, Hichens went to the man’s house. After an
argument, the two got into a physical scuffle, and Hichens attempted to shoot
and kill the man, and then himself. Fortunately, the other man was only slightly
wounded, and Hichens’ attempt to end his own life was unsuccessful. He was
arrested, and a letter on his person proved that he had been planning to shoot
his acquaintance, and then kill himself. He attempted to cut his wrists while in
custody, and then served several years in prison, being released in 1937.
When his wife became ill in 1939, Hichens finally returned home, staying
until her death. By 1940, he was back at sea, serving on the English Trader.
Hard living finally caught up with him, and his health began to fail. On Sept.
23, 1940, Hichens fell into a coma while at sea, and passed away. Because he
had been out of touch with many family members for so many years, even his
own children never learned the full circumstances of his passing. Until his
true fate was uncovered, many false rumors of his end had persisted.36
* * * * *
Just after the arrival in New York, Joseph Bruce Ismay issued instructions
that no International Mercantile Marine ships were to leave port without a
sufficient number of boats to accommodate every person on board.37 Upon
hearing that an inquiry was being set up to look into the causes of the accident,
Ismay issued an official statement to the press:
In the presence of and under the shadow of a catastrophe so
overwhelming my feelings are too deep for expression in words. I can
only say that the White Star Line and its officers and employees will
do everything possible to elleviate [sic] the sufferings and the sorrow
of the survivors and their relatives and friends. The Titanic was the
last word in shipbuilding, and every requirement prescribed by the
British Board of Trade had been lived up to. The master, officers, and
seamen were the most efficient in the British service. I am informed a
committee of the United States Senate has been appointed to
investigate the wreck. I heartily welcome an exhaustive inquiry, and
any aid that I or my associates or navigators can render is at the
service of the public and the Governments of the United States and
Great Britain. Under these circumstances I must respectfully defer
making further statement at this time.
Ismay donated $50,000 to the pension fund for widows of seamen on the
Titanic shortly after the disaster.
38 He also testified at both the Senate and
British Inquiries.
Yet Ismay was the subject of much controversy, and personal attacks on
his reputation, simply for having survived the sinking. The fact that Ismay
helped load a good number of boats during the disaster, and attempted to
assist the officers and crew in general has often been overlooked, or outright
ignored, by historians.
39
In the British Inquiry, Clement Edwards personally attacked Ismay during
his questioning, expressing the opinion that ‘having regard to his position, it
was his duty to remain upon that ship until she went to the bottom’. When Lord
Mersey sought to clarify what Edwards was saying, the latter said, ‘I do not
flinch from it a little bit.’40
In the Final Report at the British Inquiry, Lord Mersey argued against
Edwards’ position, saying an ‘attack was made in the course of the Enquiry on
the moral conduct of two of the passengers, namely, Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon
and Mr. Bruce Ismay. It is no part of the business of the Court to enquire into
such matters, and I should pass them by in silence if I did not fear that my
silence might been misunderstood’. Mersey also said: ‘As to the attack on Mr.
Bruce Ismay, it resolved itself into the suggestion that, occupying the position
of Managing Director of the Steamship Company, some moral duty was
imposed upon him to wait on board until the vessel foundered. I do not agree.
Mr. Ismay, after rendering assistance to many passengers, found ‘C’
collapsible, the last boat on the starboard side, actually being lowered. No
other people were there at the time. There was room for him and he jumped
in. Had he not jumped in he would merely have added one more life, namely,
his own, to the number of those lost.’41
Ismay had wanted to argue publicly against the accusations being made
against him, but was dissuaded from doing so by the directors of the White
Star Line, who believed it would only draw additional negative attention to
the company. In 1913, Ismay left the International Mercantile Marine
Company. However, this was in accordance with an arrangement that had long
since been made; Ismay had given International Mercantile Marine notice of
his pending resignation a month prior to the sinking. In October 1912, Ismay
apparently had a change of heart, writing a letter expressing his desire to
retain at least his position of Chairman of the White Star Line. He was
refused, and subsequently resigned both the Presidency of International
Mercantile Marine, and his Chairmanship of the White Star Line on June 30,
1913.42
After Ismay’s resignation, he spent considerably less time in London, and
less time at the Liverpool offices of the White Star Line. He began dividing
his time between London and Ireland; when in Ireland, he would stay at
Costelloe Lodge, in County Galway, in a state of partial retirement. Rumors
held that Ismay became a virtual recluse following the Titanic disaster, never
to be heard from again, but these are not at all accurate. Although he withdrew
from certain social circles, and was semi-retired, he continued to remain
active in his business interests. These ranged from being Chairman of the
Asiatic Steam Navigation Company; Director of the London, Midland &
Scottish Railway; the Liverpool & London and Globe Insurance Company; the
Sea Insurance Company; and the Birmingham Canal Navigation. He was also
chairman of the Liverpool Steamship Owners’ Protection Association, the
Liverpool & London War Risks Association, and the Delta Insurance
Company.
Ismay’s business acumen was touted in his obituary: ‘In business Ismay
was accounted an austere man. He was certainly taciturn by nature, but could
be a charming host. He had an extraordinary memory; his success was due to
his industry, integrity, and acumen, qualities which he inherited from his
father.’
Ismay was also very active in charity work. Some of his accomplishments
included inaugurating the Mersey, a cadet ship, for the training of officers for
the merchant navy, as well as giving £11,000 to found a fund for widows of
seamen. In 1919, he gave £25,000 to set up a fund to recognize the
contributions of merchantmen in World War I. In 1924, he inaugurated the
National Mercantile Marine fund with a gift of $125,000.
In 1936, Ismay’s health began to fail, and he was forced to withdraw from
most of his business activities. He had been diagnosed with diabetes earlier
in the 1930s, and his health had taken a turn for the worse. Eventually, part of
his right leg had to be amputated. Ismay returned to England, buying a small
home near Liverpool. He passed away in London on October 17, 1937, at the
age of 74. He was survived by his wife Julia, two sons, and two daughters.
Following Ismay’s passing, his son George Bruce Ismay continued to be
associated with the passenger trade via Cunard White Star, Limited.43
* * * * *
During World War I, Violet Jessop served as a nurse for the British Red
Cross. In that work, she served aboard the HMHS Britannic, the sister ship to
Titanic and Olympic, which had been converted into a hospital ship for war
duty. Her voyage on that ship was cut short when the converted liner struck a
mine and sank off the Greek island of Kea on November 21, 1916. In this
posting, Jessop had the unfortunate distinction of having been aboard both
Titanic and Britannic when they sank. Jessop had also been serving as a
stewardess on Olympic when she collided with the British warship HMS
Hawke on September 20, 1911, when both vessels sustained significant
damage.
Perhaps Jessop’s closest shave was when the Britannic was sinking. That
liner’s propellers continued to churn as the disaster took place, and Jessop
was forced to jump out of the lifeboat she was in to avoid being drawn into
them. She was sucked underwater, hitting her head on the keel of a lifeboat,
before someone pulled her into another boat. She said: ‘Years later when I
went to my doctor because of a lot of headaches, he discovered I had once
sustained a fracture of the skull!’ She credited her thick auburn hair and
hairdo with cushioning the blow, and preventing an even worse injury.
After World War I ended, Jessop returned to the White Star Line, serving
on the Olympic and Majestic. Eventually she joined the Red Star Line, where
she served mostly aboard Belgenland; she also completed some voyages
aboard the Lapland and Westernland. Violet said that the Belgenland had the
highest crew morale of any ship she had ever served on. Later she worked for
the Royal Mail Line, aboard the Alcantara and Andes.
44
On October 29, 1923, when she was 36 years old, Violet married fellow
White Star Line employee John James Lewis; Lewis was substantially her
senior. Few people attended their wedding. The marriage was a failure and
the couple separated, but did not divorce. Jessop considered it a great mistake
that they ever wed, and being a stringent Catholic, was ashamed at the failure,
and felt she could never marry again. The reason for the failed marriage is
unclear, as Jessop never spoke of the circumstances, and rarely even
mentioned the wedding.
45
In 1950, Violet retired to Suffolk, where she lived in a sixteenth-century
thatched cottage. She raised hens and tended her garden. A few years after her
retirement, Jessop received a bizarre middle-of-the-night phone call from a
lady regarding the Titanic. She asked Violet if she saved a baby during the
sinking, to which Violet responded: ‘Yes.’ The mysterious caller said: ‘Well,
I was that baby,’ laughed, and hung up on her. Jessop later mentioned this
story to biographer John Maxtone-Graham, who told her it was likely a prank
call. Jessop disagreed, telling him that it couldn’t have been a prank, because
‘I had never told that story to anyone before I told you now’.
Violet granted some interviews when the movie version of A Night to
Remember was released in 1958. She passed away in 1971 at the age of 83.46
* * * * *
Charles Joughin made a full and complete recovery from his experiences –
quite remarkable considering the amount of time he had spent in the water that
night. He testified at the British Inquiry. He soon returned to the sea, serving
as Chief Baker on a number of vessels, including a stint with the American
Export Lines, as well as troop transports during World War II. He retired
around 1944. Joughin was reported to have survived another shipwreck, as he
was aboard the SS Oregon when it sank in Boston Harbor. His wife Nellie
preceded him in death. Joughin passed away in 1956, leaving behind a
daughter and step-daughter.
47
* * * * *
Charles Lightoller testified at both inquiries following the sinking. He was
indignant at some of the questions asked of him, such as whether the falling
funnel hurt anyone when it crashed down on the masses in the water.
Lightoller did not want the British Board of Trade, the White Star Line,
Captain Smith, or any of his fellow crewmembers to shoulder the blame for
the disaster, and admitted that ‘it was very necessary to keep one’s hand on
the whitewash brush’, particularly at the British Inquiry.
48 As the only
surviving senior officer from Titanic, Lightoller’s word was trusted on a
number of issues by the examiners, even in cases where the majority of
eyewitness evidence contradicted him: this was true, for example, of his
claim that the ship sank intact.
As he was a Lieutenant in the Royal Navy Reserve, Lightoller was called
to duty in the Royal Navy during World War I. In that service he again served
aboard the Oceanic, which had been converted to an armed merchant cruiser
during the war. On September 8, 1914, Lightoller was aboard when the ship
ran aground and had to be abandoned. He once again had to lead an
evacuation effort, loading and lowering lifeboats.
In 1915, Lightoller was given command of a torpedo boat, HMTB 117,
winning the Distinguished Service Cross for engaging a Zeppelin in combat.
Following this, he was given command of the torpedo boat cruiser Falcon. On
April 1, 1918, Lightoller was asleep in his bunk when the vessel collided
with a trawler and sank while escorting a convoy in the North Sea.
Lightoller was next given command of the destroyer Garry, and on July
19, 1918, the ship rammed and sank German submarine UB-110. The ship’s
bow was badly damaged, and they had to limp back to port in reverse to
relieve stress on the bulkheads. For these actions, Lightoller received a bar on
his Distinguished Service Cross, and was promoted to Lieutenant
Commander.
By the time Lightoller came out of the Royal Navy in 1918, he held the
rank of Commander. He returned to the White Star Line, serving as Chief
Officer on Celtic, before being passed over for a promotion to the Olympic. It
was clear that White Star management was not going to give him his own
command. Lightoller did not want to remain a Chief Officer for the remainder
of his career, so he decided to retire shortly thereafter. Despite his twenty
years of loyal service to White Star Line, when he told them the news, the
stunning response was: ‘Oh, you are leaving us, are you. Well, Good-bye.’
None of Titanic’s surviving officers were ever given their own command by
the company.
Following his retirement, Lightoller and his wife Sylvia engaged in a
variety of jobs such as running an inn, raising chickens, and engaging in
property speculation. In 1936, Lightoller gave a radio interview for the BBC,
in which he described how Titanic sank.
49
In May 1940, when Lightoller was 66 years old, he and his oldest son
Roger used his 58-foot motor yacht Sundowner to aide in the evacuation of
the British Expeditionary Force and Allied troops from Dunkirk, France. They
rescued 130 men while Luftwaffe planes made bombing and strafing runs at
them as they sailed back to Ramsgate, England. Lightoller and his wife had
five children, but sadly two of his sons, Brian and Roger, were killed during
World War II. Lightoller ran a boatyard in his later years, building motor
launches for river police, and passed away in 1952.50
* * * * *
Harold Lowe testified in both the Senate and British Inquiries following the
sinking. Several false rumors regarding him were brought up during his
testimony in America. First, it was rumored that he had been drunk during the
sinking, probably due to his use of harsh language. In fact, Lowe was an
abstainer.
51 There were also thorny questions about his firing of warning shots
between the ship’s side and Boat No. 14 as it was lowered; how had he
managed to avoid hitting anyone? While nearly all the eyewitness accounts
agree that Lowe fired warning shots only, the Michigan Minutemen had heard
several seamen gossiping that he fired directly into the crowd. This may
explain why Senator Smith questioned him so thoroughly on this point, while
never directly bringing up the allegations.
52
Lowe gained a certain level of fame for his actions in Boat No. 14, saving
at least three people from the sea, as well as assisting other lifeboats full of
survivors. When he returned to his home in Barmouth, over 1,300 people
attended a reception held in his honor at the Picture Pavillion. He was
presented with an inscribed gold watch, which read: ‘Presented to Harold
Godfrey Lowe, 5th officer R.M.S. Titanic by his friends in Barmouth and
elsewhere in recognition and appreciation of his gallant services at the
foundering of the Titanic 15th April 1912.’53
Lowe married Ellen Whitehouse in 1913, and the couple eventually had a
son and daughter. He resumed his career as an officer, but like Lightoller,
Pitman, and Boxhall, was never given a command of his own while in the
merchant service. Lowe served in the Royal Navy Reserve during World War
I, and was promoted to the rank of Commander. He retired to Deganwy in
North Wales with his family. When World War II broke out, Lowe volunteered
his house for use as a sector post, and despite failing health, carried out his
duties to his fullest. Harold Lowe passed away in 1944. He was 61 years old.
His friends and neighbors eulogized him as ‘a man who made up his mind
what his duty was and did it regardless of personal consequences’.
54
* * * * *
Following the sinking, William Mellors’ hands and feet were badly
frostbitten, and it took him some time to fully recover. When he wrote his
mother on April 22, 1912, he apologized for the poor handwriting, saying that
‘my nerves are shattered’. When he wrote a letter to his friend Dorothy
Ockenden on May 9, 1912, he mentioned that he still had not regained all the
feeling in his hands.
55 Luckily, Mellors was eventually able to make a full and
complete recovery, but it took months to regain the full use of his fingers, legs,
and feet.
Mellors filed a claim in the Limitation of Liability hearings seeking $148
for lost property, and $5,000 because he had ‘received severe bodily injuries,
and was frozen in the legs, feet and arms and other parts of his body, by
reason of the exposure to the water and cold, and suffered illness and
sustained permanent injuries and incurred expenses for medical treatment, and
was incapacitated entirely from work for several months after April 14, 1912,
and was partly incapacitated from work thereafter’. Mellors testified in front
of Judge Julius M. Mayer as part of those hearings on June 26, 1915.56
Despite his injuries, Mellors was not awarded the full amount of
compensation he was asking for.
After recovering, Mellors went to work at the Richmond County Country
Club on Staten Island, and served as a valet in New York City until 1915. In
1916, he traveled and worked as a social entertainer. During World War I,
Mellors enlisted in the military, and following the war, he was naturalized as
a U.S. citizen due to his record of exemplary service. Mellors spent the next
15 years working as a salesman. Mellors married his wife Juanita in 1920,
and the couple eventually had a daughter.
In 1935, Mellors became the associate editor of the National Republic
magazine in Michigan. By the end of World War II, Mellors was promoted to
full editor. During the Second Red Scare – which lasted from 1947 to 1957 –
National Republic furnished the Dies Committee
57 with a large amount of
documents and evidence that they allegedly used in their investigations.
Mellors, supposedly a gifted speaker, traveled around the country, trying to
rouse crowds of ‘loyal Americans’ against hidden communists in the United
States.
William Mellors in 1925.
Bertha Mulvihill in her later years.
Walter Nichols (left) and Joseph Boxhall (right) together at the premier of A Night to Remember.
Around this time, Mellors’ health began to decline, and he died in 1948.
He was just 54 years old. Following his death, the National Republic
declined in popularity, and by the end of the 1950s, was no longer being
published.58
* * * * *
Bertha Mulvihill spent some time in a hospital in Rhode Island following the
disaster, and another several months recovering from her rib and back
injuries. These injuries caused her lingering pain for the rest of her life,
particularly in her later years. On April 19, 1912, her sister Mary sent an
extremely brief cablegram home to their family in Ireland. Two words were
all that was needed to disclose the happy news: ‘Bertha safe – Mary.’59
Bertha married her fiancé Henry Noon on August 12, 1912. Her
association with the disaster made her a local celebrity of sorts in the
Providence area, and a crowd of local press members and well-wishers
mobbed the wedding dinner at her sister’s house. The newly married couple
had to sneak out a back window. The couple discussed going to Ireland for
their honeymoon, but Bertha could not bring herself to set foot on a ship again.
The couple had a very happy marriage, eventually having five children.
They christened their first child Mary, because Bertha had prayed while in the
lifeboat, and promised the Virgin Mary if she survived, she would name her
first daughter after her.
Bertha spoke to reporters immediately following the sinking, but
thereafter, she rarely spoke of her experiences. The subject was taboo in her
home or at family gatherings. She led a happy life, but due to the disaster, she
had headaches and nightmares, and would wake up crying, and would even
hide in a closet during thunderstorms due to the noise. Despite her strong
desire to see her family in Ireland again, she never returned home, for fear of
crossing the ocean again. Sadly, she never again saw her brother Brian, who
was just an infant when she left home. Her fear of the ocean was so strong that
during family outings, she could not even bring herself to stay at the family
beach house at Bonnet Shore on Narragansett Bay.
In her later years, Bertha was finally able to open up about the disaster,
talking to her family about it, and even making the occasional public comment
about it following the publication of A Night to Remember and the subsequent
film. She enjoyed spending as much time with her grandchildren and family as
she could, even when her health began to fail. Bertha and Eugene Daly
remained friends following the sinking, but they soon had a falling out when
she heard false rumors that he was speaking publicly about the disaster in a
vaudeville circuit. Several years later, Daly tried to visit, but Bertha wouldn’t
see him, feeling that their differences had never been reconciled. Despite this,
she always credited him with her survival. Bertha passed away on October
15, 1959. She was 73 years old.
* * * * *
Upon reaching New York, Walter Nichols discovered that his family believed
he was dead, so he sent a message home as quickly as he could. He was
penniless, however, and needed to raise money for his return trip home to
England. As a result, he sold his story to the press, along with a copy of the
vivid personal letter he wrote to his sister which described his experiences.
Nichols, one of a number of crewmembers who had signed on to Titanic
from the SS St. Paul, which had been laid up due to the coal strike, lamented
the loss of so many of his former shipmates.
60 Nichols believed that, of the
twenty men from the St. Paul who had joined the Titanic when he had, he was
the only survivor.
Nichols returned to sea at the beginning of World War I, working aboard
Canadian Pacific Steamships, sailing aboard troopships from Halifax, Nova
Scotia and Quebec, to Avonmouth, Bristol, United Kingdom. He made several
crossings on the SS Prince Edwards, which was later torpedoed off
Gallipoli. He also sailed from Canada to Liverpool on the SS Principello, SS
Avon, and SS Lake Michigan. Nichols’ last recorded sailing during this
period was in 1915. His whereabouts until the fall of 1918 are unknown, and
even his family is not sure where he was during those years.
In October 1918, Nichols served aboard the HMHS Panama, a hospital
ship out of Southampton, via the ports of Trieste and the Dardanelles in
Turkey. Nichols served on this vessel for over nine months before returning to
Southampton. After that period, the destination of the ship’s next voyage is
unclear, although Nichols’ family believes that it was engaged in taking
ANZAC troops home to New Zealand and Australia.
Once Nichols returned from this voyage, he served aboard the SS Czar, a
former Russian American liner; on August 28, 1919, Nichols accompanied the
ship on a 58-day voyage to Murmansk, in North Russia. The ship was taking
men and supplies to support the White movement in the Russian Civil War.
Nichols made three round trips aboard this vessel. He then joined the Royal
Mail Steam Packet Company as a steward, and between 1920 and 1926, once
again completed round trips across the Atlantic from Southampton to New
York aboard SS Orduna and SS Orbita. Nichols was transferred to the RMS
Alcantara for its maiden voyage, and served aboard her for the next two
years, until he retired from the sea in 1928. At the time of his retirement,
Nichols had been at sea for a total of 38 years.
Nichols then resided in the village of West Moors, Dorset, which was
where his wife Florence’s family lived. There he took a job at the post office.
Their two sons ran businesses from their large backyard. By the time World
War II broke out, Nichols had retired from full-time work, living beside the
sea in the town of Swanage, Dorset, and working part-time in the Grosvenor
Hotel restaurant. One of his sons served in the Merchant Navy during the war,
while his other son served with the Fire Brigades, in which service he
suffered several traumatic experiences. Nichols, by then an elderly man,
worked at the Admiralty Ordinance Factory at Holton Heath near Poole,
where torpedo research was conducted. He lived on site, and was eventually
transferred to Red Barracks, Weymouth, near the Navy base of Portland.
After the war, Nichols returned to his home in Swanage and continued
working at the Grosvenor Hotel. In 1951, Florence and he celebrated their
fiftieth wedding anniversary. Sadly, in 1953, Florence passed away, and the
couple’s only daughter followed in short order. Instead of living alone,
Nichols moved in with his son and grandson Howard back in West Moors.
Nichols was interviewed during the making of A Night to Remember, and due
to this, was invited to the premier of the film. There he was reintroduced to
Joseph Boxhall, whom he had known before and after Titanic. Nichols passed
away in 1961, following a short illness. He was 85 years old.61
* * * * *
As a surviving officer, Herbert Pitman was called to testify at both the
Senate and British Inquiries. In May 1912, he rejoined his previous ship,
Oceanic, where he served as Third Officer.
In September 1912, Pitman underwent what was supposed to be a routine
reexamination of his vision, based on White Star Line and Board of Trade
regulations that their Captains and officers get their vision tested periodically.
Pitman’s vision had been tested seven times previously, and he passed the
British Board of Trade requirements on each occasion. However, since his
previous examination, regulations had been changed, and the vision tests used
had been revised; these made it much more difficult for even a mildly color
blind person like Pitman to pass. The Board of Trade was concerned that
color blind officers would be unable to distinguish the colors of a ship’s
lights at night, and thus not know which direction they were sailing in.
Pitman failed the new examination. Despite his years of service as an
officer without any difficulties, he was ruled incompetent and was asked to
surrender his certificate. The White Star Line assisted Pitman, however,
transferring him to their Purser Department. Although it has previously been
suggested that Pitman’s vision was deteriorating, and that he switched to a
less demanding position as a result, this was not the case.
62 Pitman ended up
serving on Titanic’s sister ship Olympic, but as a purser, rather than as an
officer.
In the early 1920s, Pitman left the White Star Line, and began working for
Shaw, Savill and Albion Company, Ltd. He married his fiancée Mildred in
1922. Pitman continued to serve aboard vessels as a purser, and during World
War II, he served in that capacity aboard Mataroa. He retired from the
Merchant Navy in 1946, after more than fifty years at sea. Prior to his
retirement, Pitman was awarded membership in the Most Excellent Order of
the British Empire (MBE), for his long and meritorious service at sea and in
hazardous waters during World War II.
63
Sadly, Pitman was preceded in death by his wife; he spent his later years
living with his niece in Pitcombe, and passed away in 1961. Pitman briefly
corresponded with author Walter Lord, prior to the publication of A Night to
Remember in 1955. However it appears that he was reluctant to discuss the
disaster in detail, referring to it as the ‘Titanic affair’.
64 Pitman was reunited
with his former shipmate Joseph Boxhall during the 1958 film premiere of A
Night to Remember. By that point, these two men were the only surviving
officers of the ship.
* * * * *
George Rheims suffered significant injuries during the sinking. By the time
he and the other survivors arrived in New York City, his feet were swollen up
and very black. After the arrival, Rheims did not go to St Vincent’s or another
hospital, as so many of the other injured survivors did. Instead he was taken to
his New York residence at Hotel Plaza, where a doctor called on him, and
confined him to bed for two weeks. Rheims had frostbite, and developed
gangrene in two of his toes. He had to be carried everywhere he went, and his
medical bills began to add up.
After he was well enough to return to Paris, Rheims had to walk on
crutches for another week, and was still not well enough to return to work for
three additional weeks. Rheims suffered ‘quite a lot of pain’ during his
recovery, and noted that his memory was somewhat impaired following the
disaster. While Rheims eventually recovered, he said that ‘when it is cold
now I suffer with my feet’.
He had a happy reunion with his wife Mary following the disaster, and
resumed work related to his importing company in Paris, including his two
overseas trips a year. Rheims filed a deposition and claim in the Limitation of
Liability hearings on November 14, 1913 for over $6,418 in lost property and
valuables, as well as for his injuries and subsequent doctor bills. Despite his
injuries, he lived a full life, passing away in 1962.65
* * * * *
Following her mother Lutie Parrish’s recovery from her injuries, Imanita
Shelley was reunited with her father Samuel Parrish, and husband William. At
the time of the disaster, Imanita had been living in Deer Lodge, Montana, and
her mother was living in Woodford County, Kentucky.
Shelley frequently moved around the country, and at various times lived in
Kentucky, Montana, Missouri, Oregon, Washington, Hawaii, and California.
Imanita and her mother had the reputation of being ‘social climbers’, and
despite the traumatic affects of the disaster, the two soon resumed their
extensive travels. In addition to many locations in Europe, they journeyed to
such far-flung places as Egypt, India, Hong Kong, Java, Japan, and China.
While they toured the world, it appears that they routinely left their husbands
behind for extended periods of time. At least one census from this period
indicates that their husbands, Samuel Parrish and William Shelley, were
living together, and were listed as the sole residents of their house. This
suggests that Imanita and her mother may have been traveling and away from
their husbands on a somewhat permanent basis.
After Imanita’s mother fell ill and died in 1930, the family – which had
been living in Hawaii – moved yet again. Lutie Parrish was left in a solitary
grave there. Throughout their lives, Shelley and her mother did not form many
close friendships due to their frequent relocations and travels; they also did
not leave behind much money, as they spent so much on their travels. Later in
her life, Imanita moved to California, passing away in 1954.66
* * * * *
Following the death of his father, and of his shipboard acquaintance Milton
Long, in the sinking, Jack Thayer went through a natural process of grieving.
However, he was able to rebuild his life and complete his education. In a few
years, Thayer graduated from the College of Arts and Sciences at the
University of Pennsylvania. His family had long been ‘active in the affairs’ of
the university. While in college, Thayer had taken part in sports and worked
on undergraduate publications.
Thayer appeared at the Limitation of Liability hearings, testifying in the
U.S. District Court Annex in the Woolworth Building in New York on June 24,
1915. During his testimony, he vividly described his experiences. He claimed
that he and his father ‘were constantly in the company of’, and spoke with
Bruce Ismay during the maiden voyage. He recalled that prior to the collision,
Ismay indicated that they were increasing the ship’s speed, and that additional
boilers were even to be lit.
67 Throughout his life, Thayer was haunted by the
memory of the Titanic disaster. In 1940, he had published a pamphlet
regarding his experiences entitled The Sinking of the S.S. Titanic.
During World War I, Thayer served as an artillery captain in the 79th
Division, and was an honorary member of the First Troop, Philadelphia
Cavalry. Thayer was eventually married to Lois Cassatt, and the couple
eventually had six children.
In 1919, Thayer entered the employ of Lee, Higginson & Co., Bankers,
and was put in charge of their Philadelphia office. In 1932, he left the firm to
become a partner in Yarnall & Co., where he worked until 1937. Eventually,
Thayer went on to be the Director of the Academy of the Fine Arts, as well as
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Haverford School, of which he was
a graduate. He was president of the Philadelphia Skating Club and Humane
Society, and his hobby was figure skating. He was also an avid racquetball
player.
On October 2, 1939, Thayer became treasurer of the University of
Pennsylvania, his alma mater. He served as a director of the bicentennial
celebration at the university in 1940. In February, 1944, Thayer was
appointed to the newly created office of Financial Vice President.
Two of Thayer’s sons served in World War II. Tragically, his son Edward
was killed while serving in the Pacific in October 1944. Thayer had difficulty
putting his life back together after his son’s death, and suffered from bouts of
depression. Thayer’s lifelong friend, Lieutenant Governor John Bell, said that
in September 1945, Thayer suffered a nervous breakdown, due to ‘worrying
about the death of his son, Edward C. Thayer, who was killed in the service’.
Jack Thayer was reported missing by Bell, and Thayer’s brother
Frederick, after he failed to return home from work on September 18, 1945. A
few days prior, Thayer was said to have been suffering from amnesia. His
body was found in a parked car on September 22 with his wrists and throat
cut, apparently having taken his own life. He was just 50 years old.68
Thayer’s wife Lois outlived him, remaining active in community affairs and
clubs, and living to the age of 83.69
* * * * *
After the arrival in New York, and while he was recovering from his ordeal,
August Wennerström sought assistance from the Salvation Army; the
organization provided him with temporary shelter, $25, and a train ticket to
Chicago. He also received assistance from the Red Cross.
While August was at the Salvation Army in Chicago, he met his future
wife Naomi, who was also of Swedish background. The couple eventually
moved to Culver, Indiana, where Wennerström became superintendent of
buildings and grounds at Culver Military Academy. His wife and he had six
sons and one daughter. Until his death in 1950, August gave presentations to
clubs locally and in Sweden about the sinking of the Titanic, lecturing from
his typed notes on the disaster.
70
* * * * *
Following his recovery from frostbite, lacerated feet, and his broken leg,
Thomas Whiteley was released from St Vincent’s Hospital in New York
City. His story of survival attracted reporters, and Whiteley granted numerous
interviews. He was eventually paid to give public lectures regarding his
experiences, and spoke to sold-out crowds.
Whiteley attempted to sue the White Star Line in 1914 due to his injuries,
alleging that there was negligent steering, and that Titanic was not seaworthy.
His legal council stated that a number of nautical witnesses would need to
attend the proceedings, and a hearing date of March 2, 1914 was set.
71
However, it appears that the case never went to trial. It has been speculated
that the White Star Line settled with Whiteley. Even Whiteley’s descendants
are unaware of the exact details.
In February 1916, when he was just 21 years old, Whiteley enlisted in the
Royal Flying Corps, and was shipped to France, where he served in World
War I. Whiteley was transferred to the Royal Air Force in April, 1918. When
he first enlisted, he held the rank of Air Mechanic 2nd Class, and was an RAF
Corporal Mechanic by the time his service was complete. Whiteley was
wounded in action, receiving bullet wounds behind his left ear, on his scalp
and the right side of his face, and to his lower right abdomen. He was able to
make a full and complete recovery.
In May 1924, Whiteley worked his passage to New York City aboard the
Celtic, but deserted and received no pay. He subsequently began a stage
career. Between 1924 and 1927, he appeared in productions on Broadway
and in Atlantic City, Philadelphia, and Chicago, such as Ziegfield Follies, Sky
High, and The Nightingale, among others. He subsequently moved to
Hollywood, working at the Lupino Lane Comedies Educational Studios from
1927 to 1928, before appearing in the film adaptation of the World War I stage
play Journey’s End. Following this, Whiteley wrote scenarios for Won by a
Neck in 1930, and Pleasure in 1931. He also played small roles in MGM
films during this time period.
Whiteley eventually returned to England, marrying his fiancée Isabel, and
the couple subsequently had two daughters. In 1939, Whiteley held an
advisory role in the Max Miller comedy The Good Old Days. However,
Whiteley began to seek alternative ways of supporting his family, as the jobs
he was qualified for did not pay well. He worked in a variety of capacities,
before reenlisting in the RAF on March 22, 1939; he was initially stationed
near enough to visit his family regularly. He was eventually promoted to
Warrant Officer, and was able to send money home.
In 1942, Whiteley was deployed with 87 Squadron, and ended up serving
in Gibraltar, North Africa, and Italy during World War II. He wrote home as
frequently as he could. On October 11, 1944, Whiteley experienced cardiac
problems, and died en route to a hospital. He was 50 years old.72
* * * * *
The time had arrived. About one hundred and fifty nautical miles south of the
Titanic’s wreck, nearly a month after the disaster, there came the jangling of
telegraph bells; the steady whine of a liner’s turbine engines ceased, and the
sound of her form cutting through the sea began to fade as her momentum
slowed. It was a quarter to seven in the evening of Friday, May 10, 1912.
Captain Daniel Dow of the Cunard steamship Carmania was making an
unusual stop on his liner’s westbound passage. Although far south of the
location where the Titanic foundered, he and his officers sighted many
icebergs in the area, a silent menace and frightful reminder of the White Star
liner’s recent fate.
A First Class steward was dispatched to the cabin of one of Dow’s
passengers. The lady, Henrietta Loring, had made a special request to be
informed when the liner reached the longitude of the Titanic’s wreck. Most
passengers were then headed in to dinner, so the scene on the liner’s decks
was very quiet as Mrs Loring approached the rail. Not far behind her was her
personal stewardess and another gentleman, Eric Rose, who had been her late
husband’s partner in the London stock brokerage firm of Rose, Van Custen &
Company.
Joseph Loring, Henrietta’s husband, had not planned to travel on the
Titanic the previous month. He had instead been planning to take the
Carmania – the very ship his wife now stood upon. However, his brother-inlaw, George Rheims, had convinced him to take the Titanic instead; what was
to have been an exciting passage on the world’s greatest ship had turned into a
tragedy of epic proportions. Loring’s body had not been recovered.
This location was the closest that Henrietta Loring could get to the place
where he had died. It seemed an appropriate location. She had brought with
her several boxes of flowers and a special wreath of immortelles – a flower
noted for its longevity, and frequently used in funerals at the time. The small
group cast the flowers and wreath into the sea; overcome with emotion,
Henrietta Loring was eased away from the rail and aided back to her
stateroom, leaving the decks quiet and all but empty. The flowers bobbed in
silent memoriam as the Carmania steamed off into the fading sunlight, just as
the Titanic had on the evening of Sunday, April 14, 1912, nearly four weeks
before … the smell of fine cuisine wafting from her galleys … lights
flickering to life from within her public rooms and cabins … full of life and
dreams of a bright and happy future.
73
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
ENDNOTES
PROLOGUE:
American Inquiry, pg. 97. (Henceforth Amer.)
British Inquiry, Questions 17085–17102 (Henceforth Br.); Amer. 100–103.
Br. Report, Section 7.
Br. 25388.
Amer. 19.
Tramps and Ladies, Sir James Bisset, (Angus & Robertson, 1959) Chapter 22. Rostron testified in
1912 (Amer. 20–21) that this took place in his cabin; Bisset recalled that it was in the Chart Room.
The current authors feel that Rostron’s earlier memories are probably more accurate, but either
could be true.
Amer. 20–21.
Tramps and Ladies, Sir James Bisset, (Angus & Robertson, 1959) Chapter 22.
CHAPTER 1: A LEGEND IS BORN
For further information on the Lusitania and Mauretania, please see: Lusitania: An Illustrated
Biography (Amberley, 2010) and The Edwardian Superliners: A Trio of Trios (Amberley, 2012)
both by J. Kent Layton.
Three old slipways were demolished to make way for the two new ones. Work on this got under
way in late 1906. Work on the graving dock, eventually named the Thompson Graving Dock, began
as early as 1904.
Günter Bäbler, ‘The Dinner at Lord Pirrie’s in Summer 1907: Just a Legend?’ (Titanic Post, Swiss
Titanic Society, 2000.) The entire story of this dinner party seems to have come only from Wilton
Oldham’s book The Ismay Line in 1961; it has been picked up and repeated many times since
then, but apparently all of these retellings are based upon Oldham’s book. Many older works,
including Shan Bullock’s Thomas Andrews, Shipbuilder do not include the story.
As is the case with most legends, there may be kernels of truth in the story of the dinner party.
Perhaps the idea to build two new and unprecedented White Star liners had first come to the fore
at a dinner party at the Pirries’ home. Speculatively speaking, is it feasible that the dinner party
took place during the summer of 1906, then, instead of the summer of 1907? Conceivably, but it is
unlikely that White Star would wait until the following spring to ask Harland & Wolff to produce
initial plans for the liners. If there is any truth to the legend at all, it is probably only the location of
a preliminary discussion between Ismay and Pirrie on the subject.
It is very important to note that the first keel plate was laid on the date cited above, namely March
31, 1909. Some books have cited this date as March 22; however, the work that started on that
date was the laying of wooden keel blocks on the slipway, and not the laying of the ship’s first keel
plate.
For a fuller discussion of the new liners’ technical specifications and a number of common
misconceptions in this area, please see Appendix A: Titanic’s Technical Specifications & Some
Common Misconceptions.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
Titanic: Belfast’s Own, Stephen Cameron (Wolfhound Press, 1998) pgs 11–14 gives greater detail
on hiring practices and day-to-day life of the workers. (Henceforth cited as Belfast’s Own.)
Thanks Stephen Cameron of the Belfast Titanic Society for his offering his personal insights into
some of the details of Belfast connections to the Titanic.
Baron Pirrie from 1906, Lord Lieutenant of Belfast from 1911, and Viscount Pirrie from 1921. All
three of these titles were held by him from his appointment until his death on June 6, 1924.
Not only was Pirrie highly experienced in the craft of shipbuilding and draughting, but he was also
very much a ‘hands-on’ Chairman, frequently to the point where he became overbearing with his
subordinates. Pirrie’s close involvement in the planning was confirmed by the testimony of
Alexander Carlisle (Br. 21269). Carlisle said that ‘they were entirely designed practically by Lord
Pirrie’. While this may have been a slight exaggeration, as others such as Carlisle and Thomas
Andrews were also heavily involved in the designs, Carlisle’s testimony shows just how involved
Pirrie really was.
From an interview of Carlisle by Mrs Cecil Chesterton, quoted in Belfast’s Own, pgs 28, 29.
Carlisle’s testimony to the Board of Trade put much of the design work for the two ships on Lord
Pirrie. However, it is clear that he had a great deal of say in the formulation of designs for both
vessels.
Br. 21322.
Andrews suffered from varicose veins in his legs. According to Violet Jessop, a First Class
Stewardess on the Olympic and Titanic who knew Andrews rather well, during the maiden
voyage of the Olympic some members of the crew – primarily those among the Victualling
Department – presented him with a very handsome walking stick. The crew was very grateful for
his ongoing efforts in making their accommodations more comfortable. She even felt that, in some
way, Andrews managed to impart some of his positive personality into the ships he had designed
and helped build. Titanic Survivor: The Newly Discovered Memoirs of Violet Jessop…
Introduced, Edited and Annotated by John Maxtone-Graham, (Sheridan House, 1997) pg. 103.
(Henceforth cited as Titanic Survivor.)
When the Olympic’s keel was laid on December 16, 1908, Andrews was just thirty-five. Andrews
was married slightly less than six months before this event. When Titanic’s keel was laid on
March 31, 1909, he had just turned thirty-six. At the time of Titanic’s launch on May 31, 1911, he
was thirty-eight. When the Titanic departed Belfast for the first time and subsequently set out on
her maiden voyage from Southampton, Andrews was thirty-nine.
The new Belfast City Hall was completed in 1906.
The information of his residence here can be found in the 1901 National Census of Ireland, which
can be found at http://www.census.nationalarchives.ie. The other residents in the household was
one Jane Scott, aged 50, then the ‘Head of Family’, and her sister, 43-year-old Hannah Scott. The
house was able to support a single on-site servant, namely 53-year-old Hannah Callan.
Position according to his 1901 Census record.
Belfast’s Own, pg. 92.
Rumor had it that Andrews was being groomed to head Harland & Wolff once Lord Pirrie passed
away. The uncle/nephew relationship was especially close since Pirrie had no children. However,
there is no definite evidence one way or another on this point.
In the 1911 Census, Andrews gave his profession as ‘Shipbuilder’. It is also interesting to note in
that same census, he gave his religion as ‘Unitarian’, a point which is affirmed in Shan Bullock’s
book, Thomas Andrews, Shipbuilder (1912). (Henceforth cited as Bullock.) His wife, however,
gave her religion as ‘Church of Ireland’. All information in this end note is taken from the 1901 and
1911 Irish Census Records, which are viewable at: http://www.census.nationalarchives.ie.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
Dunallon is the house name. In the 1911 census, the house number was given as 12. Today, the
house is Number 20, and it houses the Irish Football Association. Also of interest is that the street
name is often misspelled in second-hand sources as ‘Windsow’ Avenue. The house’s name seems
to be misspelled occasionally in similar accounts, as well. However it is clearly given as Windsor in
the 1911 census records.
1911 Irish Census records, viewable at: http://www.census.nationalarchives.ie. The servants were:
Cook Helon Lee (Presbyterian, aged 52); Housemaid Margaret Jones (Church of Ireland, aged
39); Parlourmaid Mary Boyle (Church of Ireland, aged 41); General Servant Lizzie Scott (Church
of Ireland, aged 14).
Quotations from fuller references to his character by his workmates contained in Bullock. Reading
through Shan Bullock’s book commemorating Mr Andrews, one gets the impression that the
picture painted of Andrews’ personality and life might be a bit ‘rosy’, as it were. However, much
of the information contained in the book was collected shortly after the sinking, and directly from
people who knew Andrews – friends, family, and co-workers – so many of the references therein
should be taken with great weight.
It is easy to picture the easy-going, mild-mannered Thomas Andrews from many of the
portrayals in books and films through the years. It is less easy to picture Andrews giving shipyard
employees the ‘rough side of his tongue’, or, upon finding a yard worker trying to conceal some
mistake, his anger blazing, as specifically described in Bullock’s book. However, it seems that there
was never any unfairness, bias or malice behind such incidents of chastisement. In a dangerous,
fast-paced environment like that of Harland & Wolff, one can easily imagine why at times
Andrews might have needed to sharply correct an errant or indolent worker.
By the time of the 1911 census, one Bessie Abernathy (Church of Ireland, aged 44) was employed
in the home as a nurse for young Elizabeth.
The names of the servants come from the 1911 census. The actual date of Wilding’s marriage to
Marion is not known to the authors at the date of this writing, but according to the 1911 census,
taken on Sunday, April 2 of that year, the wedding had taken place less than a full year previously.
Br. 23853–23856, 23872.
According to the 1911 Census, taken on Sunday, April 2, Carruthers was then aged 53, his wife
was aged 50, and their son was aged 16. At that time, Francis and Mary had been married for 27
years. They had four children, one of whom had died, and the other two were apparently not then
living with their parents. The household also had a servant, 23-year-old Agnes Mawha.
Br. 23975.
Br. 23889–23905. The original correspondence on the subject, dated 25 April 1910 through 2 June
1911, can be found at the National Archives, MT 9/920H, 1128–1135. This is only a single example
of many contained in the correspondence on that same file.
Br. 23978, 23970–23971.
Br. 23963–23967. Carruthers’ conclusion on the quality of the bulkhead work is worth noting here.
When asked if he found any of the bulkheads not watertight (23965), his response was, ‘No, I
found them all very good indeed.’
Some books on the Titanic point out that Carruthers personally visited the ship some 2,000–3,000
times during her construction. However, this does not appear to be the case. When Carruthers was
asked directly (Br. 23975): ‘Were you very frequently on the Titanic?’ his response was: ‘Yes,
about every day.’ Even if he visited the ship once every day from the time her keel was laid on
March 31, 1909 until she left Belfast on April 2, 1912, the total number of visits could number no
more than 1,099 times; even at that, the wording of his testimony leaves room for the probability
that he did not visit her every single day. It would appear that these 2,000–3,000 visits tallied up
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
during the British Inquiry were divided among three or four separate BOT Surveyors, and are not
attributable solely to Carruthers. See also Br. 20872–20876, and 21422–21423.
Cumberland News, April 20, 1912.
Amer. 957.
The color of the Olympic’s hull is frequently cited as a light grey; however, the exact shade looks
very light in period photos, and the description of ‘virgin white’ (The Olympic Class Ships, Mark
Chirnside, 2011, pg. 35; henceforth cited as Olympic Class [yr]) also indicates a very light color.
PRONI D2805/C1/1; Belfast’s Own, pgs 43–44.
Belfast’s Own, pg. 24; Public Record Office, Belfast, D2805/MIN/A/2.
The Belfast Newsletter, June 1, 1911.
Ibid.
Ibid.
Ibid.
Titanic: The Ship Magnificent, Bruce Beveridge, et. al., (The History Press, 2008) Vol. 2, pg.
204. Henceforth cited as TTSM, followed by volume number and page number.
TTSM, Vol. 1, 520.
All of the pianos supplied to the Olympic and Titanic were apparently Steinways. Further details
can be found in TTSM, Vol. 1, 130–135. By way of comparison, Cunard had specified Broadwood
pianos for the Lusitania. For reasons of space, descriptions of the Olympic and Titanic’s interior
public rooms are kept brief in this narrative. Anyone wanting further particulars on any of these
spaces should refer to Volume 2 of Titanic: The Ship Magnificent.
The color of Titanic’s Dining Saloon tiles is known because some were recovered from the wreck.
The Olympic’s Saloon ‘lino’ tiles were of a different color altogether, and her Dining Saloon chairs
were padded in green leather. This all raises some doubt as to whether Titanic’s Dining Saloon
chairs were actually padded in green leather, since that color would clearly have clashed with tile
of a predominantly red, ocher and blue. However, to date no evidence on the color of the leather
on these chairs has ever surfaced.
Interestingly, Extra Third Baker Charles Burgess of the Titanic told Walter Lord that while
Olympic’s Saloon did not have carpeting, Titanic’s Saloon was carpeted, and ‘you sank in it up to
your knees’. Ernest Townley, a Londoner who visited the Titanic on the morning she sailed, also
made a specific reference to a thick-pile carpet in the Dining Saloon.
RMS Olympic: Titanic’s Sister, by Mark Chirnside (The History Press, 2004) Appendix V.
Henceforth cited as RMS Olympic.
Indeed, during the 1920s the fixed swiveling chairs were removed from the Mauretania’s First
Class Dining Saloon and replaced with more mobile ones.
On ship’s plans from the period, the facility was simply called ‘Restaurant’. However – perhaps to
avoid confusion for unseasoned trans-Atlantic travelers not used to using the term ‘saloon’ – the
room was cited in period literature as an à la carte Restaurant, and was frequently referred to
either as ‘the Restaurant’, or ‘the à la carte Restaurant’.
Sources disagree on Gatti’s place of employment immediately before joining Titanic. While some
cite Ritz’s ‘Gatti’s Adelphi’, and ‘Gatti’s Strand’ as his previous employment, an annotated White
Star First Class Deck Plan for the Titanic (dated December, 1911) said: ‘The Restaurant is under
the management of the Company, who have appointed Mr. L. Gatti, late of Oddenino’s Imperial
Restaurant, London, as Manager.’ Frank Browne, First Class passenger on the trip to
Queenstown, saved one copy of this deck plan (it can be seen in The Last Days of the Titanic, by
E. E. O’Donnell, pgs. 30-32). Another copy was preserved by Steward F. Dent Ray, and bears the
same information. As this plan was apparently still in circulation on board the ship, the current
authors tend to trust this citation in favor of others. Oddenino’s Imperial was located at 60–62
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
Regent Street, Westminster, London. However, this does not preclude the possibility that Gatti had
previously worked for Ritz establishments in London, as is mentioned in other sources.
According to the ship’s First Class Plan of Accommodation, and the ‘Notes for First Class
Passengers’ from March 1910, the use of the equipment was free of charge.
Some references on the Titanic cite his age at 36. However, he is recorded as 34 in two original
source documents, PRONI 2A/45/381 H (Particulars of Engagement) and National Archives
(UK) MT9-920.
Titanic First Class Plan of Accommodation, December 1911; TTSM, Vol. 2, 416. Unfortunately,
the exact times of day when the baths were open for free use by ladies has not survived, or at
least have not been found. According to records for the Olympic’s first three voyages, however, it
is clear that this offering was made available to them.
Titanic First Class Plan of Accommodation, December 1911.
Ibid.
Notes for First Class Passengers on Board Steamers of the White Star Line, March 1910
Edition.
TTSM, Vol. 2, 241.
TTSM, Vol. 2, 245–246. These tiles have been recovered from the wreck site, proving their original
color. By way of comparison, the Olympic’s Smoking Room floor tiles were buff and gray in color,
perhaps more palatable to modern sensibilities of interior décor. In an interesting twist, it is quite
possible that the leather covering the furniture in Titanic’s Smoking Room was red or burgundy in
color, as opposed to the green leather used in Olympic’s Smoking Room. There is little or no
evidence on this point, however – beyond the basic consideration of how ghastly green leather
would have looked against mahogany walls and blue and red floor tiles.
Notes for First Class Passengers on Board Steamers of the White Star Line, March 1910
Edition.
RMS Olympic, 51.
The Shipbuilder. Midsummer, 1911 Special Number.
TTSM, Vol. 2, 27.
Olympic was launched on October 20, 1910, and sailed on her maiden voyage seven months and
three weeks later, on June 14, 1911. However, of that near eight-month period, about two weeks at
the end were consumed with the ship’s trials, a publicity visit to Liverpool, and public inspections at
both Belfast and Southampton. Thus, actual work of completing the Olympic took about 7½
months.
From notes by Bruce Ismay, contained in The Ismay Line, by W. J. Oldham (1961); also based
upon selected notes by Thomas Andrews made during the maiden voyage, some of which are
available online through Mark Chirnside’s web site, www.markchirnside.co.uk.
The authors would like to thank Daniel Klistorner, author of Titanic in Photographs (The History
Press, 2011, henceforth cited as Photographs) for sharing his research on this subject with us so
that it could be included in this volume. For a full breakdown on the facts behind Mr Klistorner’s
discovery, please refer to that volume.
The name for this particular space, Café Parisien, has been spelled in every conceivable way,
including ‘Café Parisian’ and ‘Café Parisienne’. However, extensive research by Art
Braunschweiger of the TRMA has revealed that the spelling used here, Café Parisien, is the
proper spelling as it was used in the First Class Plans of Accommodations issued by the White Star
Line just before the maiden voyage.
Two copies of these plans, dated December of 1911, showed the new B Deck cabins outboard,
and the enlarged Entrance on B Deck for the Restaurant Reception Room, but did not show cabins
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
A-36 or A-37. Exactly how late it was decided to include these two cabins is unclear, but it must
have been within the last few months of work.
The Shipbuilder. Midsummer 1911, Special Number.
TTSM, Vol. 2, 365.
Please see The Titanic Commutator, Vol. 27 No. 164, 232–234.
For further information on this conspiracy theory, and why the evidence does not support it, please
see the following references: Titanic or Olympic: Which Ship Sank? The Truth Behind the
Conspiracy, by Steve Hall and Bruce Beveridge (The History Press, 2012); ‘Olympic & Titanic
– An Analysis of the Robin Gardiner Conspiracy Theory’, by Mark Chirnside (available at
http://www.markchirnside.co.uk/Conspiracy_Dissertation.pdf).
Many of Titanic’s 37 inch x 31 inch B Deck windows had been replaced with 37 inch x 21 inch
windows in preparation for the new B Deck staterooms. However, a number of the original 37
inch x 31 inch windows remained along Titanic’s B Deck in the vicinity of the Private Promenades
and the Café Parisien.
Br. 21275–21277.
Br. 21393. The details of these two meetings are primarily reconstructed from Carlisle’s thorough
testimony on the subject. During the course of the British Inquiry, Sanderson and Ismay were
asked about the meetings, as well. However they had little or nothing to add – and in Ismay’s case,
considerably less to offer – beyond what Carlisle testified to.
Br. 21394.
Br. 21400, 21401.
Br. 21402. Since Carlisle said that Ismay ‘agreed’ with the statement, it must have been made
originally by Pirrie, who did all or nearly all of the talking for Harland & Wolff at the meeting.
Br. 21396, 21404–21406. Carlisle’s testimony is difficult to decipher, as to begin with he was
discussing events from both meetings at the same time. Then he was walked carefully through the
events, and questioned about each meeting separately, and he was much clearer in his statements
as to what happened at which meeting.
Br. 21408.
Br. 21293–21295.
Br. 21411–21414.
Br. 21418.
Br. 21375–21377.
Br. 21379–21384.
National Archives, MT15/114, pg. 19.
Br. 21415, 21416, 21421.
Br. 21316–21322.
Br. 21345–21349.
Br. 21328–23330.
Br. 21514–21516.
Br. 21520–21524.
These figures are based on the ‘Report of Survey of an Emigrant Ship’, dated April 4 and April 12,
1912 (National Archives, MT/9-920H, 475). Frustratingly for modern researchers, in 1912 there
was a long list of complicated rules and exceptions to measuring lifeboat capacities. This meant
that in some other contemporary source documents (such as ‘Declaration of Survey of a
Passenger Steam Ship’, dated April 3, 1912, MT/9-920H, 479), these same boats’ capacity was
measured differently. In this report, the same twenty boats could only accommodate 1,167 persons,
broken down so that the fourteen primary boats carried 915, the two cutters carried 64 (32 each),
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
and the collapsibles 188 persons. The discrepancy was discussed at length on Day 17 (Br.), during
the testimony of Harold Sanderson. It is also referred to in TTSM, Vol. 1, 573–575.
Because of these discrepancies, the round load plates for the fourteen primary lifeboats would
have stated their capacity at sixty-four persons, and the two emergency cutters’ round load plates
would have put their capacity at thirty-three persons each. It seems that the collapsible boats did
not have load plates attached. Since the 1,178 capacity was accepted by the builders, the Board of
Trade under certain rules of computation, and was used in period references such as The
Shipbuilder, this is the set of figures that will be used throughout this text.
National Archives, MT9/920H 484.
Br. 20490.
Br. 24040, 24041.
Br. 24044.
Br. 24047–24049.
Br. 24052–24058.
Br. 24052. His calculations were given in hundredweight (cwt) at the British Inquiry. These were
Imperial measures equaling 112 pounds each. 2 Imperial cwt = 224 pounds. 2¼ Imperial cwt = 252
pounds.
PRO MT9-920A-1, pg. 151.
PRO MT15/114 pgs 12–13.
An Imperial hundredweight (cwt) = 112 pounds, so a half-hundredweight weight would have
weighed 56 pounds.
Br. 20491.
PRO MT9-920A-1, 151.
Story told by McRoberts’ son-in-law Brian Millar to Stephen Cameron. The direct quotation can
be found in Belfast’s Own, pgs 21–22.
There would appear to be photographic evidence of the Olympic’s port propeller, still attached to
the ship in drydock, (H&W photo H-1707) with the missing blade about to be replaced with the
other. When Olympic arrived in Belfast, Titanic had not yet been removed from drydock despite
advance notice of her impending presence; this indicates that Titanic may have remained in
drydock while one of the blades from her port propeller was removed. It is also possible that
Titanic’s entire port prop was removed, if the full level of damage was unknown prior to
Olympic’s arrival and a thorough inspection, and that only the one blade was subsequently utilized
as a replacement.
National Archives, MT9-920A-1, 151.
It took longer to build the Titanic than the Olympic during all stages of construction. Harland &
Wolff built the Olympic’s hull in one year and ten months, whereas Titanic’s took two years and
two months. The fitting out of the Olympic took a little over seven months, while the same process
on the Titanic took just over ten months. Although later delays can be blamed on Olympic’s earlyservice mishaps, even before that point modifications to the Titanic’s design from the Olympic, as
well as perhaps a focusing of effort on finishing the first liner for entry into service all helped to
contribute to a longer build time for the Titanic. In total, Olympic’s build time (from the laying of
the keel to delivery) took 2 years, 5½ months; Titanic took just a shade over three full years.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
In his autobiography, Lightoller stated that he and Blair were transferring together from the
Oceanic. However, first-hand documentation shows that when signing on to the Titanic, Blair
gave his previous ship as the Teutonic (PRO, Belfast, TRANS 2A/45/381A). Lightoller frequently
misnamed ships in his autobiography. The New York incident, for example, somehow became the
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
St. Paul incident. It is thus not surprising that he misremembered where Blair had been before the
three men joined Titanic in Belfast.
The Odyssey of C.H. Lightoller, by Patrick Stenson, 1984.
The story, although there are some factual discrepancies in it, is contained in The New York Times
of March 23, 1911.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935. Lightoller does not name Haddock directly.
However, Haddock was in command of the Oceanic from April of 1907 through to March of
1912, concurrent with Lightoller’s service on that ship.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
The Maiden Voyage, by Geoffrey Marcus, 1969 (Henceforth cited as The Maiden Voyage); Of
Ships and Men, by Alan Villiers, 1962.
PRO, Belfast, TRANS 2A/45/381A
Amer. 371.
Amer. 260. The inquiry transcript reports Pitman testified that his last ship was the ‘Dolphin’.
However, no White Star Line ship by that name appears in the Lloyd’s Shipping Registry in the
years preceding the Titanic disaster. It appears likely that he actually served aboard the Delphic,
and that this was an error in the Inquiry transcript. A 1909 crew roster for the Delphic lists a
‘Fourth Officer W. H. Pitman’ as serving aboard her. While the initials don’t match, the rank is
correct, and it lists this crewmember as being 31 at the time, and his home as Somerset, both of
which match Herbert Pitman. The November 10, 1910 edition of Auckland’s Evening Post lists a
‘Mr. J. Pitman’ as serving as the Delphic’s Fourth Officer. While not certain, both of these
references support the conclusion that Herbert Pitman served aboard the Delphic, and not a
vessel named Dolphin; thus the ship’s name is given as the Delphic in the primary text.
Amer. 209.
This information was turned up by Titanic researcher Inger Sheil, after consultation with Lowe’s
family. For further information on Harold Lowe, please see Inger Sheil’s Titanic Valour: The Life
of Fifth Officer Harold Lowe (The History Press, 2012).
Amer. 369.
Amer. 386.
Amer. 373, 376.
Recalled by Dr Beaumont. Titanic Voices: Memories from the Fateful Voyage, by Donald
Hyslop, Alastair Forsyth and Sheila Jemima, (St. Martin’s Press, 1994) 90. (Henceforth cited as
Voices.) One is left to wonder when this conversation took place, since O’Loughlin and Smith
were both serving on the Olympic before transferring to Titanic. He reported aboard the Titanic
at Belfast on March 24. However, Captain Smith had taken the Olympic out of Southampton for
New York on March 13; the liner arrived in the American port and departed from there on March
23, 1912. So obviously this conversation took place before Smith’s final round-trip voyage on the
Olympic. The question is: how much earlier? Beaumont did not elaborate.
A Night to Remember, Walter Lord, 1976 Edition, pg. 53. (Henceforth A Night to Remember.)
Titanic Survivor, 123.
It should be noted that the Marconi Company was not a single entity, but was rather comprised of
various corporations, including the British Marconi Company, the Marconi International Marine
Communications Company, and the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Company of America. Phillips
and Bride were employed by the Marconi International Marine Communications Company. (Br.
16020, 16025)
Amer. 134.
Amer. 133.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
In addition to the 5-kw primary set, Titanic was also fitted with an older-style 1 1/2-kw emergency
set.
For a thorough breakdown on the Titanic’s Marconiset, please see TTSM, Volume 1, Chapter 24.
Br. 16026–16037.
Amer. 144.
Br. 16350.
Naturally, the reference to a 24-hour day is an average, as five hours separated Southampton and
New York times. West-bound, the Titanic’s clocks were adjusted backward each night, producing
a nearly 25-hour day, while east-bound the process was reversed, producing a day slightly longer
than 23 hours.
As the official ship’s time was customarily changed in two stages (at midnight and again at four
o’clock in the morning) through the night, this division would allow both operators an even division
in the time spent at the key.
Br. 16333–16339.
Amer. 135. Apparently, the Marconi Co. engineers were working right up to a point very close to
the departure from Belfast.
Br. 15770–15776.
Br. 14621, 14627.
Br. 23963.
Br. 14630, 14631.
This weight is again given in Imperial, or Long, tons of 2,240 pounds. 15.75 Imperial tons would
amount to 35,280 pounds, or 17.64 modern tons of 2,000 pounds each.
Br. 14629.
Haddock took command of the Oceanic for her April 1907 west-bound crossing to New York.
(The Oceanic’s manifest upon arrival in New York on April 17, 1907, was signed by Captain
Haddock.) It is known that Haddock was still in command of the Oceanic on January 6, 1910. On
that date he appeared before the Southampton Harbour Board deputation along with other White
Star high-ups, as they lobbied for improvements in Southampton waters in order to accommodate
the Olympic and Titanic. (Voices, 29) When he signed on the Titanic, he gave his last ship as the
Oceanic. (PRO Belfast, TRANS 2A/45/381A)
This refers to the first White Star ship to bear the name, of 1874. Titanic’s younger sister would
eventually be named Britannic, while a third vessel of the name, the motorship Britannic, would
be launched in 1929.
Some sources (such as National Archives BT100-259, pg. 112) cite Bell’s age as 51, but
apparently he was born in May of 1861, which means that he would only have turned 51 shortly
after the Titanic sank. When he signed aboard the ship on April 2, he gave his age as 50.
Robert Fleming would eventually serve as Chief Engineer aboard the Britannic, third of the
Olympic-class liners.
Amer. 957.
Ibid.
When he signed on to the Titanic, he gave his last ship of service as being the Gothland. Here we
run into a bit of an interesting story. The 7,755-gross ton Gothland referred to was originally built
as the SS Gothic, intended for the White Star-Shaw Savill & Albion Co.’s joint service to Australia
and New Zealand. She began her maiden voyage to New Zealand in late 1893. In June of 1906,
she had a serious fire on board, and was subsequently refitted and transferred to the Red Star
Line, another IMM company, and renamed Gothland. She was recorded arriving in New York
under that name in January and February of 1911, and again in July.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
It seems that the vessel was thereafter transferred again, chartered for service on the
Australian run in early December of 1911 by the Aberdeen Line. In this transfer, her name was
changed again to Gothic. She remained under that name and stayed with Aberdeen through the
first part of 1913. Later she was transferred back to Red Star, and once more named Gothland.
So if Millar served on the vessel before December of 1911, then she would indeed have been
known as the Gothland. If he was with the ship on her Australian run after December of 1911,
then she should properly have been called Gothic. The exact dates of Millar’s service with the
vessel are unclear, however, so further research into the matter is called for at a future time.
See further information on this at http://www.belfast-titanic.com, under the article ‘Two Pennies’,
a recollection by Millar’s son. The family still cherishes the two pennies that Millar’s son recalled
receiving from him before he left on the ill-fated voyage.
Special thanks to Daniel Klistorner, who passed on this particular nugget to the present authors
after he had discovered it for his own book, Titanic In Photographs (The History Press, 2011).
White Star had done away with the official position of Commodore in 1882, and would not
reinstate that until Captain Hayes took command of the new flagship Majestic in 1922. This did
not stop most people from referring to Captain E. J. Smith as ‘Commodore’, since he was the
undisputed senior Captain of the line.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
These times were specified in the sign-on sheets.
The Belfast Newsletter, April 2, 1912.
Ray must have brought the carpet fragment ashore with him when the Titanic arrived in
Southampton. This would suggest that he may have returned to his home during the ship’s layover
in Southampton; he then lived at 56 Palmer Park Avenue, Reading, Berkshire, just over forty miles
from the Titanic’s berth.
Voices, 24–25.
Despite popular belief and misidentification, all known photographs of ‘Honour and Glory
Crowning Time’ and the Grand Staircase are actually of the same location on the Olympic.
Consequently, there is no way to verify Wilson’s information, or indeed of knowing whether the
clock was perhaps installed during the stay in Southampton instead, or if the mirror remained
steadfastly in place through the maiden voyage.
Based upon the technical design of the Magneta circuit, it would not seem that having one
‘slave’ clock missing on the circuit, such as the one in the Grand Staircase, would have impeded
the other ‘slave’ clocks in the system. In fact, junction boxes were left available so that extra
clocks could be added to the system, should the need arise. (TTSM, Vol. 1, 520)
Chisholm had reportedly designed the Titanic’s lifeboats.
PRO MT9-920A-1, 151; also Br. 23988–23998.
Br. 25291, 25295, 25296.
Lowe’s deposition to the British Inquiry, courtesy John Creamer. The entire text of Lowe’s
deposition can be found in George Behe’s On Board R.M.S. Titanic: Memories of the Maiden
Voyage (Lulu Press, 2011), pgs 351–354. (Henceforth cited as On Board, Behe).
Amer. 135. Interestingly, Bride recalled that the trials took place on Monday, rather than Tuesday,
as they actually did.
Amer. 135.
Ibid.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Belfast’s Own, 70.
PRO MT9-920A-1, 151, 152.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
Recalled by First Class Stewardess Mary Sloan, contained in Shan Bullock’s Thomas Andrews,
Shipbuilder, Chapter 7.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Amer. 51.
Mr Van der Hoeff was mentioned in The Belfast Newsletter, but his name was misspelled in some
sources as Wyckoff Derholf.
Amer. 210.
Amer. 137.
Amer. 135.
Amer. 210–211.
Deposition of Edward Wilding, Limitation of Liability Hearings.
Ibid.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Amer. 801.
According to the Hampshire Independent, the two vessels passed each other ‘a short distance
somewhere off Portland’. (Voices, 36). However, the Olympic was bound for Cherbourg, requiring
a trip to the south-southwest, while Titanic was east-bound toward Southampton water some
distance to the west. It seems unlikely that the two ships actually came within sight of each other,
although the spectacle of the two largest liners in the world passing at sea would have been an
incredible one.
In his memoirs, Bowyer took much time discussing the Olympic, but avoided any mention of the
Titanic. That he piloted the ship in to Southampton that night is an educated assumption, based on
the fact that White Star seemed to prefer his pilotage to that of others, the fact that he most likely
had taken the Olympic out earlier in the day, and a host of other factors. However at this point, the
present authors can not say for certain that it was Bowyer; hence the careful wording in the text.
Amer. 261. The distance cited in the text is an approximation.
Br. 17501–17503. For more information on the binoculars, please see Appendix C: The Question of
Binoculars.
The New York Times, April 7, 1912.
Trenton True American, March 27, 1912.
The New York Times, April 5 and April 7, 1912.
The New York Times, April 7, 1912.
Titanic Survivor, pg. 103.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
An excellent description of this facility, and its history, can be found in Voices, 20–22.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Ibid.
Ibid. Apparently these details are based on certain correspondence available to Bullock. Some of
the problem items identified aboard Titanic were discovered in Southampton. Bullock wrote that it
was in one of Andrews’ ‘last letters’ that he mentioned the hot press in the Restaurant Galley, and
the number of screws in the hat hooks. The color of the pebble dashing, as well as the plans to
stain the wicker furniture green on one side of the ship, came from correspondence of ‘another
earlier date’.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. This story is a reprint of Imanita Shelley’s account that she
wrote for the Powell County Post in Deer Lodge, Montana. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
TTSM, Vol. 1, 497–500.
Voices, 44; TTSM, Vol. 1, 500.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
The figures of coal taken on, consumed, etc., come from documents contained in the British
National Archives which were filled out to clear the ship. The specific document in question can
be seen in Titanic: Triumph & Tragedy, pgs 64–65. Clearly, the Titanic was not short of coal, as
has been alleged. Please see Appendix 7, ‘… Short of Coal?’, of Olympic Class [2011].
The Titanic Commutator, No. 161, 22. ‘Titanic At Southampton’, by Stanley Lehrer.
This information was contained in a post card which he sent off to his sister, Elsie, on April 6. He
did not state therein whether Bride accompanied him or if he traveled independently.
Amer. 211–12.
Christian Science Journal, October 1912. Recalled by Charles Lightoller. Full text available in
On Board, Behe, 348–351. Which ship was being referred to is entirely unclear; it could have
been either the Oceanic or the Majestic, as both ships were laid up in Southampton at the time.
This postcard was transcribed and the entire text appeared in Voices, 36. A photo of the card
appeared along with several news stories when the card went to auction, and the transcription
from Voices has been confirmed as correct. Although Blair made a single-quote mark around the
name Titanic, he did not do so around the name of her sister ship, Olympic, and that difference
has been retained in this quotation. Additionally, he underlined the word ‘very’ in ‘very
disappointed’, and that also has been retained in this quotation. The card in question went to
auction by Henry Aldridge in late 2007, and was purchased by an undisclosed bidder.
Amer. 212.
Northern Constitution, May 1912.
Researcher Geoffrey Marcus discovered that Wilde had been hesitant to accept the appointment
to the Titanic until his friends told him that he would be ‘mad to refuse’ the opportunity, so he had
accepted the posting. (The Maiden Voyage)
Amer. 429.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Cork Examiner, April 1912. A photograph taken from one of the passenger tenders at
Queenstown and appearing in this paper shows Second Officer Lightoller and First Officer
Murdoch in the gangway doors. Not only is it the last known photograph of Murdoch before the
sinking, but it reveals that Lightoller was still wearing the stripes indicating his previous rank of
First Officer.
Amer. 54, 55.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Amer. 53.
Amer. 53, 54.
Recalled by Blair’s daughter Nancy, Voices, 85.
Recollection of Eileen Lenox Conyingham. Voices, 51.
In 1924, for example, the Prince of Wales took passage on the Berengaria; the ballroom was
given a fresh coat of paint, and voluminous quantities of flowers were brought in to disguise the
paint’s aroma.
A great deal of information about the Bealings’ connections to the White Star Line and Titanic can
be found in Voices, 49–51.
Bullock, Chapter 7. It has been assumed that this letter was written in the evening, and this may be
correct. However, Andrews’ secretary said that Andrews was in the offices both in the morning
and evening, so it is possible that the letter was written earlier on in the day, as well. A timestamp
on the original letter, if available, would settle the question rather nicely.
It has been said that when he left the ship, he accidentally came away with the key to the Crow’s
Nest telephone lock-box. Just such a key has recently turned up at auction and sold for a hefty
sum. However, some historians are unsure as to whether the key in question really belonged to
221.
222.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
Titanic. The key’s authenticity seems to be unsettled at this point, and certainly made no
difference in the subsequent disaster, since the lookouts had no trouble accessing the telephone
when they reported the iceberg. If the key in question really did belong to the Titanic, it had
nothing to do with the binocular story, and the two are frequently mashed together in the re-telling.
Amer. 211.
Amer. 135.
CHAPTER 2: AN AUSPICIOUS CROSSING
Some books have cited sunrise time in Southampton that morning as being 5:18 a.m., but without
direct reference to how that time was calculated. Southampton’s city center is listed as being
located at 50° 46’ N, 1° 23’ W. Titanic was berthed about one mile southwest of that precise
position. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA) sunrise/sunset calculator
places local time sunrise for that location, on that date in history, at 5:23 a.m. The difference is on
the whole small, but is worth noting.
First Class passenger Adolphe Saalfeld described the morning as ‘calm and fine, the sky overcast’
that day. (On Board, Behe, 83–84.) There are photos held in private collections that show the ship
tied up that morning, with a brilliant beam of sunlight illuminating the ship’s Forecastle and Bridge,
while the rest of the ship is shielded from the sun by clouds. (See The Titanic Commutator, No.
161, pgs 20–21.)
Assistant Electrician Albert Ervine attributed the near-collision with the New York to ‘high
winds’. However, it is clear that it was caused by the suction of the Titanic’s propellers, not wind.
Indeed, it would have required a tremendously strong wind to break the New York from her
moorings; photographic evidence of the departure shows variable moderate winds – enough to
make the flags flutter from Titanic’s masts, but not enough to flatten smoke emitting from the
tugboats.
Amer. 378.
Photos clearly show the White Star house flag, as well as the British ensign, flying from the ship
that morning, and on previous days while in port. Further details on the liner’s flags can be found in
Art Braunschweiger’s ‘Flags of RMS Olympic and RMS Titanic’, available online through the
Titanic Research & Modeling Association; also TTSM, Vol. 1, Chapter 22.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Amer. 674.
Recalled by Albert Benham, Voices, 92.
Olympic normally flew the Blue Ensign during her career, as well. Further details on the liner’s
flags can be found in Art Braunschweiger’s ‘Flags of RMS Olympic and RMS Titanic’, available
online through the Titanic Research & Modeling Association; also TTSM, Vol. 1, Chapter 22.
Br. 24106.
Amer. 212.
Br. 24094, 24095, 24126; Amer. 376; Amer. 674. Times for the muster were given as 8:00, 8:30,
etc., and this can look very confusing until you consider the breakup of the crew on various decks,
and the fact that Fireman John Podesta mentioned that the muster ‘usually takes about an hour’.
(Titanic Commutator, December 1964.)
Third Officer Pitman said (Amer. 263) that the entire Deck Department was called out for this
drill. However, Seaman Jones said (Amer. 559, 567) that he supposed that everybody was there,
about thirty or forty individuals. His numerical estimate is a bit shy of the full complement of the
department.
There may have been some from the department – such as the Ship’s Surgeons – who were
exempted from being present on this occasion. It is known that Fourth Officer Boxhall was not
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
directly in the middle of the drill; that rather, he was in some location watching, and did not see the
boats lowered or raised back up – he only saw them in the water being rowed around.
Amer. 376.
Amer. 262; Amer. 214. This comes from Boxhall’s testimony, and the wording is slightly confusing.
When asked if he was present for this boat drill, Boxhall replied that he was not, and that he did
not see the boats lowered. However he did say that he saw the boats in the water, after they had
been lowered, from his location ‘in another part of the ship’. He was then asked who was officer
of the watch that day, to which he replied that ‘all officers were on duty’. Next, he was asked:
‘Did you see Mr. Murdoch there at this time?’ Apparently, although not certainly, the question
referred specifically to the lifeboat drill, as Boxhall never did reveal his exact location during the
boat drill. Boxhall replied: ‘Yes; and Mr. Wilde, the chief officer.’ Lightoller included himself in
references to the Boat Drill that morning, and was aware of the number of seamen put in the boats
for testing purposes. (Br. 14451–14455.)
Amer., 375–376, Lowe recalled his boat during the drill as No. 11. (Br. 503–513), AB Seaman
Joseph Scarrott affirmed three times that he was in Boat No. 13 during the drill. Some books cite
Boats Nos 11 and 15, while others cite Nos 13 and 15. However, everyone agreed that only two
boats were employed, and these are the only specific references the current authors have found to
which boats were used during the drill. The only possible conclusion, then, is that it was Boats Nos
11 and 13 which were employed in the drill.
Br. 21952.
Br. 509; Amer. 263.
Br. 21954.
Amer. 376.
Amer. 376–377.
Amer. 376.
The train times from Waterloo to Southampton are listed in the 1910 reference The Scientific
American Handbook of Travel at 1 hour 44 minutes (page 319). A first-hand account of the
same passage on June 8, 1911 put the duration at ‘about 90 minutes’. (Railway and Travel
Monthly, July 1911, pg. 61.)
Francis Browne is apparently the only one who took the First Class Boat Train and later recalled
its departure time from Waterloo at 9:45. All other First Class passenger accounts the current
authors have seen refer to its departure at 8:00 a.m. Some books and other histories have
recounted that the Second and Third Class Boat Train from Waterloo was the early one, while the
First Class Boat Train was the later of the two. However, it has proven difficult to find any firsthand references to this, despite the seemingly logical explanation frequently given for this timing.
All we have to go by is the time estimates given by passengers, and the known duration of the
transit. Further evidence on this point may come to light later.
Jigsaw Picture Puzzle of People Whom I have Known And Sundry Experiences From 1864 to
1949, by Elmer Zebley Taylor. (Henceforth cited as Jigsaw, Taylor)
According to some reference works discussing Mr Browne, he was born on January 3, 1880, while
others cite his birthday as July 3, 1880. While the former seems to be best documented at the time
of this writing, it is possible that he was born in July, which would have meant that he was 31 at the
time he boarded the Titanic.
Browne is exhaustively referred to as ‘Father’ Browne in many books on the Titanic. The truth is
that, although he did become a Jesuit priest on July 31, 1915, he was not a priest in April of 1912,
and that title will not be applied to him through the remainder of this text.
According to one source, this two-day passage was a gift to Francis Browne from his Uncle
Robert; according to other sources, he was traveling at the invitation of his friend, Mrs Odell.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
According to White Star ticketing records, the Odell/May group, Francis Browne, (cross-Channel
to Queenstown) and the Dennis and Eileen Lenox-Conyngham (cross-Channel to Cherbourg)
were all on the same group of tickets. Perhaps Browne accepted the invitation and then his uncle
had purchased the ticket for him. Francis Browne’s ticket was forwarded to him directly by post,
sent on April 3 and arriving on April 4.
Originally, Browne identified a solitary figure in this photo as ‘Astor’, having come down to see
them off. Many assumed that it was John Jacob Astor IV, who would be aboard the Titanic.
However, Astor was boarding from Cherbourg, France, not London, and it would have been a
physical impossibility for him to be present. Others have stated that the figure was J. J. Astor’s
cousin, William Waldorf Astor, but the man bears no resemblance to that Astor, either. Thus, the
identity of the tall figure remains unknown.
It has recently been mentioned that one of the partially obscured figures on the right in this
same photo might have been J. Bruce Ismay, and the portion of the man’s head visible does bear
something of a resemblance. However, Bruce Ismay was reportedly rather tall, some six inches
taller than the average Briton of the time, and this figure is decidedly more average in height. It has
been suggested that the man seen talking with this obscure figure is a reporter, and a photographer
– purportedly the reporter’s cohort – stands nearby with a camera, having just snapped a figure of
the legendary White Star Chairman. Allegedly, only an important person such as Ismay would have
drawn both a reporter and a photographer, and thus, it is alleged, the man must be Ismay.
However, there is no definitive evidence in the photo to suggest a connection between the
photographer (not even necessarily a professional) and the man talking with ‘Ismay’. No photos
have ever surfaced taken of Ismay that morning at the Waterloo Station, and no other reports of
his departure from that station have ever turned up. Both the ‘reporter’ and the photographer are
dressed just as well as the others at the platform, and the ‘reporter’ is not seen holding anything
such as a notebook with which to take notes for his ‘story’.
While a woman – possibly, it is thought, Ismay’s wife, but then again not Ismay’s wife if it is not
convenient to the theory – is present, there is no sign of Ismay’s children, two of whom were
reportedly with him when they boarded the ship. Perhaps Ismay was detained, and his family
traveled ahead? Perhaps. The whole supposition, while possible, seems to be built on something of
a ‘house of cards’ of conclusions to which there seems very little evidence. Thus, the identity of
the partially obscure figure should remain in the decidedly ‘unidentified’ category at this point.
Perhaps future evidence on the point willsurface.
A great deal of biographical information on the Crosbys may be found in On Board, Behe 462–
464.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Amer. 3.
The Ismay Line, Wilton Oldham, pg. 186. Recently, Oldham’s facts have been called into question
with suggestions that at the very least Bruce Ismay remained behind in London and was
photographed on the Waterloo Platform by Francis M. Browne on the morning of April 10.
However, the photographic evidence and surrounding arguments do not at this time sustain the
assertion as fact. More evidence would have to be presented on the matter before this story from
Oldham’s book could be discounted. Please see Endnote 28 for further information.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
The details of the pier-side sheds were given in Railway and Travel Monthly, July 1911, 61–63.
The Belvederian, (Belvedere College Yearbook) 1912 Edition. (Henceforth cited as
Belvederian.)
On Board, Behe, 504.
These plans had been updated by the March, 1912 printing.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
Belvederian.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, April 1912. Quoted in full in On Board, Behe, 299–308.
Unfortunately, it is impossible to precisely pinpoint what cabin the Futrelles were booked into with
the data at hand.
The Hallet & Davis Piano Company was absorbed into the Aeolian American Corporation after
The Great Depression. The Hallet & Davis name was later acquired by an overseas piano
company. In an interesting twist, Hallet & Davis was one of the piano manufacturers who supplied
pianos for the well-known W. W. Kimball Piano Company of Chicago.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912.
Maidenhead Advertiser, April 29, 1912. The account is available in full in On Board, Behe, 419–
422.
Letter written to Byles’ housekeeper, Miss Field, from on board the Titanic while the liner was in
Cherbourg Harbor. The original letter, in whole, can be read at: http://www.encyclopediatitanica.org/letter-frbyles-miss-field.html. The letter is in the collection of Joan Barry, Byles’ great
niece.
Evening Banner, April 26, 1912.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. This story is a reprint of Shelley’s account that she wrote for
the Powell County Post in Deer Lodge, Montana. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Ilford Graphic, May 10, 1912. Mrs Hart’s full account is available in On Board, Behe, 323–328.
The Loss of the S. S. “Titanic”, Ch. 1, by Lawrence Beesley, 1912. (Henceforth cited as
Beesley.)
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931.
The Indianapolis Star, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Miss Dowdell’s account is compiled from her accounts in The Hudson Dispatch, April 20, 1912;
The Jersey Journal, April 20, 1912; The Hudson Observer, April 20, 1912. The Amy Stanley
portion of the story is compiled from The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912 (full account available in
On Board, Behe, 402–403).
A Brush With Life, Norman Wilkinson, 1969. Quoted in Voices, 94.
Townley’s entire account was published in the London Daily Express of April 16, 1912. It can be
read in On Board, Behe, 67–69. Noteworthy in this account is Townley’s specific reference to
thick pile carpet in his description of the Dining Saloon. This statement harmonizes with what Extra
Third Baker Charles Burgess told Walter Lord, as recorded in A Night to Remember. Burgess
said that Titanic was more elaborate than the Olympic, and cited an example: ‘Take the dining
saloon – Olympic didn’t even have a carpet but the Titanic – ah, you sank in it up to your knees.’
Could both individuals be completely wrong? It is known that the Saloon was fitted with ‘lino’
tiles, which have been recovered from the wreck. On the other hand, did Townley actually make it
in to the Saloon, or did he just look into it from the carpeted Reception Room? One later-day
recollection of carpeting in the Saloon is easily dismissed; a second one does raise an eyebrow on
the point, however. This point is certainly worthy of further investigation.
The Irish Times, April 16, 1912, quoted in full in On Board, Behe, 69–70. The name of the
correspondent remains unknown. As an interesting aside, it is conceivable that this newspaper
correspondent was in the Gymnasium at the same time as Beesley and his friends; however, there
were many people coming in and out of the Gym that morning, and without firmer evidence, it
should only be considered a possibility.
Titanic: Triumph & Tragedy, 64–65 contains a reproduction of this document.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Amer. 332.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
Amer. 330–332.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Br. 1390.
Fellow Second Class passenger Kate Buss explained the relationship in a letter that she wrote on
board the Titanic on April 11: Collett was a nephew of ‘the old Huntleys, of Huntley Palmer’.
Miss Wright’s mother was one of the Huntleys, as well. Miss Buss’ full letter may be read in full in
On Board, Behe, 94–95.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912.
This information was given from a ‘private source’ to Geoffrey Marcus for his book, The Maiden
Voyage. Researcher Mark Chirnside has independently found references to the officers’ stations
on board the Olympic in 1911 and 1920, and the assignments line up quite well. There is some
variance as to the assignment of the Fifth Officer (some departures had that officer assigned to
the Compass Platform amidships, while others had him on the Bridge wing.) However, none of that
evidence would seem to preclude the information provided by Marcus’ ‘private source’, and it is
thus included here as it was published in his book. Also of interest is the fact that Wilde and
Lightoller were paired up, while Murdoch and Pitman were also paired up. These same pairs of
officers were assigned to the port and starboard side lifeboats, respectively, on the night of April
14–15th.
Southern Daily Echo, April 17, 1962. Quoted in full in Voices, pgs 98–99.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
There is some apparent conflict in the recollections of eyewitnesses to this event. Podesta recalled
(quoted in Titanic: Triumph & Tragedy, 75) that when the Slades and Penney arrived, the
gangway had already been lowered from the ship’s sides. Beesley, watching from above, seemed
to indicate that the gangway was still connected, as he said that after the argument it was ‘dragged
back’. However, his wording is not entirely clear; it leaves room for the interpretation that the
gangway had already been brought back a bit, but there was perhaps a pause while the decision
was made not to allow the men to board, and then it was dragged away completely.
Another interesting piece of information that Beesley relates is that the ‘petty officer’ he
referred to was at the shore end of the gangway. Almost universally, it has been assumed that
Sixth Officer Moody was the ‘petty officer’ in question, since he was assigned to the after
gangway. However, if the gangplank had been disconnected already, Moody would already have
been on the ship, not standing on the shore end. It is thus possible that this ‘petty officer’ was not
Moody, but rather someone else connected with the shore staff. Even if this had been the case, it
is likely that Moody was involved in the decision not to allow the men aboard.
Clearly the gangway had to be re-connected once for R. C. Lawrence to disembark; perhaps
the gangway had been disconnected again when the Slades and Penney arrived. Or perhaps
Moody was simply fed up with the last-minute delays and had to make an executive decision on
the point. So what is the most likely explanation for all of this?
It seems apparent that the gangway was either still connected, or had just been disconnected
for the second time and not yet pulled back completely. If so, then Moody may have confronted
the tardy crewmen on the gangplank before re-boarding the ship, after which the gangplank was
pulled back all the way. However, there is some room for interpretation in lieu of further evidence.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Barrier Miner, May 4, 1934.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Olympic Class [2011], 145–146.
London Daily Express of April 16, 1915. Quoted in full in On Board, Behe, 67–69.
Birkenhead News (unknown date).
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
Titanic Survivor, 121.
The Straus name is correctly spelled with only a single ‘s’ at the end. Interestingly Colonel Gracie
claimed, in his book The Truth About the Titanic, that he and both Strauses were then together on
the deck. However, Mrs Straus wrote a letter to a friend that day in which she explained that her
husband later had to describe the entire New York incident to her after the fact. Please see On
Board, Behe, 86–87.
The Tacoma Times, December 5, 1911.
On Board, Behe, 477–478; The New York Times, April 16, 1912; The Evening News, December
6, 1911; The New York American, April 29, 1912.
This company was not directly related to Levi Strauss & Co., the jeans company founded in 1869
by Levi Strauss. The two families were not directly related, either; in addition to the different
spelling, Isidor’s family hailed from Otterberg, Germany, and Levi Strauss’s family was from
Buttenheim, in Bavaria, Germany.
It is frequently said that Straus was a ‘co-founder’ of Macy’s; however, the company had been
founded before he was affiliated with it. Yet by the time he took passage on the Titanic, Straus
was the owner of the company.
Some of this information can be found in The Truth About Titanic, Ch. 1; and On Board, Behe,
537–8.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 1.
Account by May Futrelle, recorded in the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, April (29?), 1912.
Account is available in full in On Board, Behe, 301. Mrs. Futrelle’s recollection of a band playing
from shore is at variance with other evidence. No band was engaged to play from shore that
morning, as had been done with the Olympic’s maiden sailing the previous year. What she was
referring to is unknown, and further investigation on this point is in order at a future date.
The turbine was only engaged at speeds of ‘Half Ahead’ or better on the engine order telegraphs.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
The Irish Times, April 16, 1912, quoted in full in On Board, Behe, 69–70.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Account by May Futrelle, recorded in the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, April (29?), 1912.
Account is available in full in On Board, Behe, 301.
Amer. 332.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Account by May Futrelle, recorded in the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, April (29?), 1912.
Account is available in full in On Board, Behe, 301.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Sentiment expressed by Butterworth in a letter that he wrote while the ship was on her way to
Queenstown. It can be read in its entirety in On Board, Behe, 95.
Amer. 332.
London Daily Express of April 16, 1915. Quoted in full in On Board, Behe, 67–69.
On Board, Behe, 237.
On Board, Behe, 247.
Account by May Futrelle, recorded in the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, April (29?), 1912.
Account is available in full in On Board, Behe, 301.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
It should be noted that the courses and speeds referred to in this section are derived from the
detailed navigational data of the Olympic’s September 20, 1911 departure from Southampton over
the same course. These figures and records were carefully recorded in her log, and were later
used as evidence in the legal cases resulting from that action. Additionally, the weather conditions
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
on the day that the Olympic collided with the Hawke were relatively similar – clear, relatively
calm and in daytime – and thus are comparable. Olympic collided with the Hawke shortly after
completing this ‘reverse-S’ curve and ringing her engines back up to ‘Full Ahead’ (about 20 knots)
for the trip down the Solent to open water. These should thus be regarded as estimations of the
Titanic’s course and navigation; however, the confined spaces of the Southampton waters and
similar weather conditions would have produced a near-duplication of the course run and times by
the Olympic the previous September.
Olympic departed White Star Dock at 11:10 a.m. on September 20, and entered the ‘reverse-S’
turn at Calshot Spit at 12:34 p.m., 1 hour and 24 minutes later. It took her 10 minutes to make the
turn, and she re-engaged her engines for ‘Full Ahead’ at 12:44 p.m., 1 hour and 34 minutes after
departure.
On April 10, 1912, it seems to have taken about 15 minutes to get the Titanic into the main
channel once she cast off from the pier, and she cast off at approximately 12:00 noon. (Please see
Appendix B: From Southampton to Cherbourg for further details on this portion of the ship’s
voyage.) If the New York incident had not transpired, it is very likely that the Titanic would have
entered this ‘reverse-S’ turn at about 1:24 p.m., exiting the turn ten minutes thereafter.
Belvederian.
These courses, such as South 65° West, were based upon the layout of the magnetic compass card
in use at the time. The graduation by degrees on the card began at due North and due South
(modern 360° and 180°, respectively), and ran to the right or left – east or west – by 90° to either
side. So South 90° West would have equated to due west or 270°, while South 90° East would
have equated to east or 090°. Thus, a course of South 65° West would have equated to a course of
west-southwest, or 245°.
Course 121°.
This is based upon a length of that passage estimated at approximately 14.5 nautical miles, covered
at an average speed of 20 knots, which is the speed that Olympic was accelerating to for her
passage down the Solent when she collided with the Hawke. To cover 14.5 nm at 20 knots would
have taken roughly 43 minutes, and as an approximation only, a few minutes should be allowed for
in either direction. Thus, the text states a relatively generic ‘about three-quarters of an hour’.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Belvederian.
The Titanic did not drop anchor in Cherbourg until about 6:30 p.m., but she had left her berth
shortly after 12:00 p.m. This amount of time would seem an inordinately long stretch for her to
have taken between the two points, and some have thus estimated that her speed must have been
much lower than that stated in this text – something on the order of 15–16 knots.
However, Bruce Ismay specifically testified at both inquiries (Amer., 3; Br. 18368–18370) that
the engines were run at 68 revolutions between Southampton and Cherbourg. Although a full slip
table was never completed for the Titanic, (see testimony of Fifth Officer Lowe, Amer. 385)
research by Sam Halpern shows that 68 revolutions works out to an approximate speed of 20.2
knots. The turbine would have been engaged only above 50 revolutions, or ‘Half Ahead’ on the
engine order telegraphs. Please see Halpern’s article, ‘Speed and Revolutions’ (Revised January,
1911) online at his web site: http://www.titanicology.com/Titanica/SpeedAndRevolutions.htm.
For more information on the delays experienced in clearing Southampton waters, please see the
Appendix B: From Southampton to Cherbourg.
The larger picture on the timing of events that afternoon gives a clear indication that the Titanic
was not slouching at 15–16 knots during the trip through open water between the two ports.
Rather, it seems that she was making about 20.2 knots through the water.
Belvederian.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
Passenger’s name unknown; account printed in the Belfast Evening Telegraph, April 15, 1912.
Published in its entirety in On Board, Behe, 110–111.
Belvederian.
Our thanks to George Behe for identifying Taylor’s ‘Williams’ with the correct identity, Fletcher
Fellows Lambert-Williams. Beyond this Williams, there were only two Williams traveling in First
Class: Charles D. Williams (aged 51) and his son, tennis star Richard Norris Williams (aged 21).
Neither man would fit the description, but Fletcher Lambert-Williams does, especially as he was
traveling alone, one of the details that Taylor did give on his acquaintance. If Lambert-Williams’
friend called him ‘Williams’, then the current authors feel it best to refer to him as Williams in this
text, as well.
The Band That Played On, by Steve Turner (2011, Thomas Nelson), Chapter 5. Brailey’s father’s
name was Ronald.
Some sources cite his age as thirty. The Band That Played On, pg. 105, gives his date of birth as
July 28, 1883, which would have made him just twenty-eight at the time of the Titanic’s maiden
voyage.
Some sources cite his age as 30; The Band That Played On, pg. 91, gives his date of birth as
August 9, 1890, which would have made him 21 at the time of Titanic’s maiden voyage.
While some sources cite his age as 32, The Band That Played On, pg. 102, lists his date of birth
as March 20, 1872, which would have made him just 30 while on board the Titanic.
On Board, Behe, pg. 104.
Titanic Survivor, Violet Jessop (Sheridan House, 1997), pg. 124 This reference has caused much
consternation among Titanic historians, leading some to even conclude that it happened on a
different day than Sunday. However, the concept that Hume led the less prestigious tea concert on
Sunday may solve the riddle permanently. Supporting it is the fact that Jessop mentioned this
conversation before she mentioned the evening and sunset. When the tea-time performance ended
at 5:00, that certainly would have been considered “evening.” However, this is merely the bestsupported hypothesis available at this time.
Further biographical details on each member of the Titanic’s band can be found in The Band That
Played On, by Steve Turner (2011, Thomas Nelson.)
The original transcription of this statement contained the word ‘you’ instead of ‘your’, as seen in
the main text. However, from the context, it is quite clear what was actually said that day, and has
been corrected for this telling.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Please see Appendix C: The Question of Binoculars.
Br. 2308.
Br. 2332; Leading Fireman Charles Hendrickson said that it was not a common occurrence (Br.
5233–5237). However, the phenomenon was well known to Barrett. Even the United States Navy,
in 1898, had acknowledged that bunker coal kept near a hot bulkhead would ‘run a great chance of
igniting within a few days’. (What Really Sank the Titanic? McCarty/Foecke, 2008, 178.)
Br. 5239.
Br. 2296–2302.
Br. 2338–2340.
The Scientific American Handbook of Travel, Munn & Co., 1910, pg. 281.
Ibid.
Edith Rosenbaum changed her last name to Russell in 1918. At the time of the Titanic’s maiden
voyage, she was still known as Edith Rosenbaum. Although she is well known to Titanic
enthusiasts as Edith Russell, the name Rosenbaum will be used throughout this text as it was
correct for 1912.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
Edith Rosenbaum left numerous accounts of her experiences on the Titanic. Including among
these was a 1934 account which she attempted to have published unsuccessfully, as well numerous
newspaper and magazine interviews. Many of these accounts were kindly provided to the authors
by Mike Poirier.
First Class passenger Margaret Brown recalled that the ship’s bugler sounded the call to dinner a
half hour after she had boarded, but not many people responded (On Board, Behe, 217). However
others, such as Francis Browne, recalled the bugle call to dinner sounding earlier, that they were
already seated while other passengers were boarding from the tender, and that they were still
seated when the ship departed Cherbourg at 8:10. It would seem that Mrs Brown was mistaken in
her recollections. Another possibility is that a second call for dinner was sounded for those who
had only just arrived from Cherbourg.
Awake! October 22, 1981, 3–7.
Newport Herald, May 28–29, 1912. For the full account, please see On Board, Behe, 217–226.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
[old 137] Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
[old 40] Miss Laura Mabel Francatelli’s age is a subject of some debate, ranging from 30 up to 32,
depending on which source is consulted. When the Carpathia’s manifest was filed in New York,
listing Titanic’s survivors, she was recorded as Mabel Francatelli, and her age was set at 30.
[old 41] The Oxford Magazine, Volume 19 (March 23, 1901), pg. 272.
[old 42] Discretions and Indiscretions, Lady Lucy Duff Gordon, 163–4. Text provided by Mike
Poirier. (Henceforth cited as Indiscretions)
[old 43] Indiscretions, 164.
Deposition of George Rheims given in U.S. District Court during the Limitation of Liability
hearings, November 14, 1913; The Sun, May 13, 1912.
The New York Times, April 9, 1912, April 17, 1912.
The Globe-Democrat, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Belvederian.
In one televised interview, Miss Rosenbaum said that the Lift Attendant in question had told her he
was fourteen years of age. According to the ship’s crew list, there were four Lift Stewards: 17-
year-old Frederick Allen; 31-year-old William Carney; 18-year-old Alfred King; 17-year-old
Reginald Pacey. While it seems most likely that the conversation was had with one of the three
younger Lift Stewards, none of the four were as young as fourteen. Apparently, Miss
Rosenbaum’s memory failed her on this point.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Belvederian.
The Harpers were in stateroom D-33; D-33 was on a side companion which gave onto four rooms:
D-33, D-31, D-37 and D-35. According to the list found on Steward Cave’s body (known as the
Cave List), all three of these other rooms were already filled. However, nearby D-27, D-29 and D49 were all unoccupied according to the same list, and emerge as potential candidates.
Interestingly, one of James Cameron’s expeditions to the wreck managed to obtain access to D27, and found an upright double washstand with an upright drinking glass still on the side in its rack.
Some period photographs suggest that stewards placed these drinking glasses upside-down on the
rack; it thus seems possible that the room was actually occupied on the trip, and that a passenger
had taken a drink from that glass, placing it in the upright position on the rack before the sinking.
Please see Ghosts of the Abyss, 100–101; The Titanic Commutator, Vol. 27, No. 164, 234–235.
Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Mrs Cassebeer’s account can be read in full in On Board,
Behe, 235–237. Also an account by Mrs Hoyt given in the Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
23, 1912. Additional private accounts also provided by NMM/Mike Poirier Collection.
Amer. 1100.
Salford Reporter, May 23, 1912.
Passenger’s name unknown; account printed in the Belfast Evening Telegraph, April 15, 1912.
Published in its entirety in On Board, Behe, 110–111.
Amer. 3; Br. 18373. See also Sam Halpern’s article, ‘Speed and Revolutions’, available through his
web site at: http://www.titanicology.com/Titanica/SpeedAndRevolutions.htm.
Br. 2203, 2204. Twenty of the ship’s twenty-four main boilers were lit at the time. One more main
boiler would be lit Friday, April 12, and the final three Sunday morning. Apparently, the final five
auxiliary boilers were never lit.
Titanic: A Centennial Reappraisal, Sam Halpern et al., (2011, The History Press) Section 5.
(Henceforth cited as Centennial Reappraisal.)
This is a rough approximation based on the following evidence. First, the latitude and longitude of a
mid-position between Land’s End and the Scilly Isles: 49° 59’ North, 5° 59’ West; it should be
remembered that Titanic’s actual position may have been slightly different. Second, the ship’s
estimated overnight speed of about 20.7 knots through the water since leaving Cherbourg.
Although her precise course is not known, the general course would have encompassed
approximately 192 nautical miles before the Titanic entered open water without either Land’s End
or the Scilly Isles on either side. Without accounting for any effects of wind or current, at 20.7
knots this would have taken the ship about 9.3 hours. Finally, the ship had weighed anchor and
resumed her journey from Cherbourg at 8:10 p.m. It would have taken a few minutes or her to
clear the breakwater and build up speed. This is a generalization, and should be given a margin of
error, but it gives a fairly accurate representation.
Belfast Evening Telegraph, April 15, 1912. Full account contained in On Board, Behe, 110–111.
Ibid.
Beesley, Ch. 4.
Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, April 1912. Quoted in On Board, Behe,
299–308.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
On Board, Behe, 91-92.
The Maiden Voyage.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
This time would have amounted to about 11:55 a.m. GMT.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Daly – an Irishman – is mentioned as playing a set of bagpipes as the Titanic departed
Queenstown. Technically, there are many different types of bagpipes; included among these are
the Great Highland Bagpipe, which is Scottish in origin, and the uilleann (pronounced ‘illawn’)
pipes, which are Irish in origin. While stating that Daly played a bagpipe would thus be broadly
correct – as the uilleann pipes are a form of bagpipe – it is more accurate to say that he played the
Irish uilleann pipes.
Information courtesy of the Daly family; Emergency and Relief booklet by the American Red
Cross, 1913; Irish American, May 4, 1912; The Irish Sunday Press, June/July 1956, courtesy of
Geoff Whitfield; Cork Examiner, May 9, 1912.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
Information courtesy of Mark Petteruti and the Mulvihill family; Providence Journal, April 20,
1912.
Private letter from Margaret Rice to a friend in Spokane, Washington. Neither Eugene Daly nor
Bertha Mulvihill mention traveling with Margaret Rice in their accounts, but Margaret mentioned
that she was traveling with them to America in a private letter sent shortly before the disaster.
Belvederian.
This information was compiled after exhaustive research on the part of Lester Mitcham. The
complete crew and passenger list compiled by Mitcham can be found in Centennial Reappraisal,
Appendices A–F.
Cork Examiner, April 13, 1912; Cork Examiner, May 9, 1912; information courtesy of Mark
Petteruti and the Mulvihill family.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Amer. 3; Br. 18367. Looking carefully at Ismay’s testimony, it would seem that the speed of the
reciprocating engines was upped from 70 directly after leaving Queenstown to 72 the next day. For
further information on this, please see Centennial Reappraisal, Chapter 5.
Indianapolis Star, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In this interview, Thompson was also
reported to have said that they ‘were to beat all records’ on the maiden trip. Obviously, the ship
could not have taken the Blue Riband; perhaps he was referring to the record speed of the
Olympic’s maiden voyage. From other evidence, it is clear that the furnaces which had been lit up
to the time of the collision were being fired hard, as Thompson recalled. Thus, it is not as if
Thompson’s entire account is questionable.
In her personal account, Mrs Shelley said that this occurred ‘after leaving Queenstown the next
day’. Although there is some room for interpretation on the timing of this event, it seems that she
was referring to ‘the next day’ after they boarded, and that Mrs Parrish’s trip to the Purser
occurred directly after leaving Queenstown.
2:55 p.m. Greenwich Mean Time (GMT); 9:55 a.m. New York Time (NYT). From this point
forward in the primary text, the time of events aboard the Titanic will be given in Apparent Time
Ship (ATS) unless otherwise noted.
‘Keeping Track of a Maiden Voyage’, by Sam Halpern; Centennial Reappraisal, Chaps 5 and
13.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
The five-man orchestra played before dinner between 5:00 and 6:00 p.m. in the Second Class
foyer on C Deck, and resumed playing at 8:00 p.m., after dinner, in the First Class Reception
Room. (TTSM, Beveridge et. al., Vol. 2, pg. 27.)
East Kent Gazette, May 4, 1912. Letter quoted in full On Board, Behe, 94–95.
A very detailed breakdown of the various watches and other events during Titanic’s maiden
voyage has been compiled by Sam Halpern, and is available on his web site at:
http://www.titanicology.com/WatchTablesFile.htm.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
The accounts by Mrs Cassebeer and Mrs Hoyt fill in almost all of the spaces at this table. The
information for her assignment to Purser McElroy’s table comes from private accounts by Mrs
Cassebeer. Shan Bullock adds Mr and Mrs Dick. Unless one of these accounts is mistaken, it
would appear that the current authors have identified ten occupants at this table. Only three tables
in the Saloon accommodated more than eight people – two held ten each, and the third held
twelve. If this was, indeed, Purser McElroy’s table as Mrs Cassebeer clearly related, then this
would explain why the table was such a large one. The Chief Purser’s table was nearly as coveted
as that of the Captain.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Mrs Cassebeer’s account can be read in full in On Board,
Behe, 235–237. Also an account by Mrs Hoyt given in the Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April
23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
As Miss Frölicher was frequently called Marguerite, she will be referred to by that name
throughout this text.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In her account, Marguerite said that
this occurred on the first night out, which one would initially assume would refer to Wednesday
night. However, her mother had written a letter late Wednesday night mentioning that they had no
trace of seasickness within the family. Because the family had boarded in Cherbourg, it is likely
that Marguerite was referring to Thursday’s meal, rather than Wednesday’s.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. This story is a reprint of Shelley’s account that she wrote for
the Powell County Post in Deer Lodge, Montana. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 10304–10316.
Amer. 811–812.
Titanic Survivor, pg. 123.
Amer. 294. Third Officer Pitman was asked directly: ‘When were the ship’s clocks set; do you
know?’ He responded: ‘They are set at midnight every night.’ When asked: ‘They were set at
midnight?’ he reaffirmed: ‘Every night.’
During the entirety of Friday, April 12, the ship’s clocks (Apparent Time Ship, or ATS) were
running 3 hours and 36 minutes ahead of New York Time (NYT), and 1 hour and 24 minutes
behind Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
Indiscretions, 164.
The Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Ibid. This account was told by Mrs Shelley, and may have been something she personally
witnessed, but the exact day this happened was not specified.
Beesley, Ch. 3.
Br. 2203, 2204; Amer. 3. Barrett did not specify exactly when on Friday this boiler was lit up, but
Ismay recalled that the revolutions had increased on the second day. It is possible that the boiler
was fired up overnight or early on Friday morning, and that the steam pressure was applied later in
the day.
‘Keeping Track of a Maiden Voyage’, Sam Halpern; Centennial Reappraisal, Chapter 13.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Mrs Cassebeer’s account can be read in full in On Board,
Behe, 235–237. Also an account by Mrs Hoyt given in the Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April
23, 1912. Additional private accounts also provided by NMM/Mike Poirier Collection.
George Behe identified these girls as Louise and Simonne Laroche, daughters of Joseph and
Juliette Laroche. Joseph Laroche was from Haiti, not Japan; he was black – and is thought to be
the only individual of that race aboard the ship. However his rather exotic facial features, and
those of his daughters – Mrs Laroche was Caucasian – may have fooled Kate Buss into believing
that the little girls were Japanese.
East Kent Gazette, May 4, 1912. Quoted in full in On Board, Behe 115–116.
5:46 p.m. Apparent Time Ship (ATS); 2:10 p.m. New York Time (NYT);
7:10 p.m. Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
Br. 16059, 16060.
Br. 16061.
6:21 p.m. ATS; 2:45 p.m. NYT; 7:45 p.m. GMT.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
235.
Br. 16065.
Amer. 460–461.
Br. 14801. In answering this question, Lightoller said that it was the duty of the First Officer of
White Star ships to draw up the boat list. Although the list was posted on Thursday, April 11, there
is no reason to believe that Lightoller drew up the list before the ship departed Southampton and
before Lightoller’s official position was demoted to Second Officer. (Chief Officer Wilde did not
formally come aboard until the night before departure, and the officers held their original ranks
through the stay at Southampton up until the evening of April 9.) Lightoller subsequently said that
he ‘did not examine it, in absolute detail and check it by the [crew] list’. (Br. 14803.) Clearly, this
list was drawn up by Murdoch after departing Southampton, and it was only ready by some point
on Thursday.
Br. 69.
Br. 11328–11330.
Br. 5221–5224.
Br. 5290–5293.
Br. 6423–6429.
Br. 6013–6019.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Indiscretions, 164–165. Lady Duff Gordon did not give the name of her stewardess, but did give a
clue in saying that she was Irish. This could point to Mary Sloan, who was from Belfast. Another
possibility is that it was Sarah Stap. This possibility emerges from an interview with Stewardess
Sarah Stap for the Birkenhead News, wherein it is said that she had care of both the Duff
Gordons and the Astors. Miss Stap was born at sea, and so it is possible that she had an Irish
accent. However, the Astors were slated for cabins C-17 and C-21, while the Duff Gordons were
on A Deck. It thus seems likely that the newspaper article is incorrect in the statement that she
had care of both families. Mary Sloan’s personal account does not specifically mention the Duff
Gordons, but neither does it specifically exclude them as being in her care.
Amer. 948.
‘Keeping Track of a Maiden Voyage’, Sam Halpern, available at his web site,
www.titanicology.com. Centennial Reappraisal, Chapters 5 and 13.
East Kent Gazette, May 4, 1912. Quoted in full in On Board, Behe, 119–120.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Br. 2206–2215.
Amer. 3, 954; Br. 18374–18377.
Recalled by Mrs Lines during her testimony at the Limitation of Liability Hearings.
Recent research by Sam Halpern and Mark Chirnside has resolved the question of what time the
Olympic began her maiden crossing of the Atlantic. She had passed Daunt’s Rock at 4:22 p.m. of
the first day, while Titanic had started at 2:20 p.m. on her first day, approximately two hours earlier
than the time of her sister.
Looking strictly at the mileage estimates for each day’s runs, the Titanic, by noon on Saturday,
had a 41-mile lead over her sister, a lead that would only increase at Sunday’s noon location, and
the gap would continue to widen as Titanic’s speed was increased Sunday evening and into
Monday.
However, now that the question of what time Olympic started her trip has been resolved with
certainty, it can be said that although Titanic was ahead of her sister, it was not due to increased
speed over her sister up to noon on Sunday. Olympic had run 962 miles to local apparent noon on
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.
245.
day two of her maiden voyage, in 45.8 hours at an average speed of 21.00 knots; Titanic had run
1,003 miles to noon on her second day, in 47.89 hours at an average speed of 20.94 knots. By noon
on her third day, Olympic had covered 1,504 miles in 70.57 hours at an average speed of 21.31
knots; By noon on her third day, Titanic had covered 1,549 miles in 72.64 hours for an average
speed of 21.32 knots – in other words, to noon on Sunday, the two vessels’ average speeds had
been a near match to about 1/100 of a knot in average speed.
Because the Titanic had cleared Daunt’s Rock two hours ahead of the Olympic’s maiden
voyage, however, Bruce Ismay clearly felt that they were making better time than the Olympic
had, and this is true in the strictest sense of the wording. After noon on Sunday, the Titanic’s
speed increased as more boilers were brought on line and hooked into the engines.
It is quite clear from all available evidence that Titanic was slated to arrive in New York late on
Tuesday evening and begin her docking process. Since the Olympic had arrived at the Ambrose
Lightship at 2:24 a.m., as the Titanic had gotten a two-hour head start on her sister in departing
Queenstown, and since the Titanic’s speed was increased on Sunday evening (intended through
Monday), a Tuesday night arrival was almost a certainty, unless weather factors (or, in the event, a
collision with an iceberg) interfered.
Please see Appendix O: ‘J. “Brute” Ismay?’ for further details on Ismay’s presence and behavior
during the crossing. Simply put, however, Captain Smith did not show any discord of thought with
Ismay’s thinking during this Saturday conversation. If he held any inward reservations about
continuing at an ever-increasing speed, the Commander did not feel strongly enough on the subject
to use his authority to slow the ship down. It seems that he simply trusted his ship, his officers, and
his lookouts to avoid any danger that might lie ahead, as was frequently the case with North
Atlantic skippers of the era.
Br. 5244.
Br. 5245.
Br. 2304–2305.
Br. 5246–5251. It has been suggested over the years that this coal bunker fire heated the steel of
the bulkhead to the point that its structural integrity was compromised. It has further been
suggested that that weakness played a part – significant or otherwise – in the loss of the liner on
the following night. It was this particular coal bunker where the iceberg damage crossed the
watertight bulkhead separating Boiler Room No. 6 from Boiler Room No. 5. It was in this same
area of the ship that Frederick Barrett recalled something giving way which brought a quick
flooding of Boiler Room No. 5 during the sinking.
Of interest, no one claimed that they actually saw the bulkhead heated to the point where it was
‘red hot’. Hendrickson only said that he could see where he thought it had been red hot. Given the
strength of the steel used in the Titanic’s bulkheads, and the temperatures at which coal burns, it is
very unlikely that the fire caused any significant weakening of the bulkhead in question. For further
details on this, please see What Really Sank the Titanic? 175–180.
Amer. 1100.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 1.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Liberty magazine, April 23, 1932. Account text provided by Daniel Klistorner.; also the
Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, April 1912. Account available in full in On Board, Behe, 299–
308.
Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Mrs Cassebeer’s account can be read in full in On Board,
Behe, 235–237. Also an account by Mrs Hoyt given in the Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April
23, 1912. Additional private accounts also provided by NMM/Mike Poirier Collection.
246.
247.
248.
249.
250.
251.
252.
253.
254.
255.
256.
257.
258.
259.
Jigsaw, Taylor. In his recollection, Taylor placed this event on Sunday evening. However, the
specific reference to Captain Smith being in the Reception Room after dinner does not fit in with
the known movements of Captain Smith on Sunday night. According to many, Smith was in the
First Class Restaurant and then headed directly to the Bridge. This means that the event must
have occurred on a previous night during the crossing.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Ibid.
It has often been repeated that the Rappahannock signaled the Titanic with an ice warning, but
Dave Gittens turned up some excellent research on this point in his online article at:
http://users.senet.com.au/~gittins/rappahannock.html
According to the April 26, 1912 article in The New York Times, quoted in the narrative, the
Rappahannock had sustained damage while traversing an ‘ice field’, but Chief Smith did not
report sighting any icebergs, nor did he at the time mention anything about a warning to the
Titanic. This was reported later in The Maiden Voyage by Geoffrey Marcus after an interview
with Smith, and also in a letter published in The Daily Telegraph on April 7, 1962. The current
authors believe it is certainly plausible that the Rappahannock sighted the Titanic on the night of
Saturday, April 13, which is why it is included in the narrative. Anything beyond that would be past
the purview of this volume.
Amer., 1052; Br. 16788–16794. The apparatus failed at about 11:00 p.m. Saturday night, and was
operating by 4:30–5:00 the following morning according to Bride. Bride also said that it was not
working for ‘five and a half to six hours’. This adds up until one accounts for the fact that at
midnight, the ship’s public-room clocks were put back by 45 minutes to 11:15 p.m. Again, as was
the ordinary custom, the Bridge clocks were put back in two stages – 23 minutes in the first watch,
and 22 in the second watch. This means that from 11:00 p.m. to 4:30–5:00 a.m. was really a span
of 6¼–6¾ hours, not the 5½–6 hours Bride recalled.
Bride was even mistaken on exactly which night the wireless failed, later saying that it was
operating again by 4:30–5:00 a.m. ‘Saturday morning’. Bride was obviously exhausted that night. It
is not really surprising that he made an error in his recollections of about 45 minutes in the telling of
this part of their experiences later on.
The fact that this event took place Saturday night–Sunday morning, rather than Friday night–
Saturday morning, is borne out by the fact that the two operators were so exhausted on Sunday,
and also why Bride had agreed to start his Sunday night–Monday morning shift early, in order to
help Phillips get caught up on his rest. Additionally, the two men had not managed to catch up on
their workload until late Sunday night.
‘Keeping Track of a Maiden Voyage’, Sam Halpern, available at his web site,
www.titanicology.com. Centennial Reappraisal, Chapters 5 and 13.
The Ilford Graphic, May 10, 1912. Account contained in full in On Board, Behe, 323–328.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
One Third Class passenger, Jakob Johansson, wrote in his diary that everyone had to stay inside
because it was raining on Sunday. However, he did not specify the time of the rain, nor did he give
any other details. (On Board, Behe, 124.) On the other hand, a number of others – including Lady
Duff Gordon –reported that the day was fair and sunny right from early that morning.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 1.
The Sinking of the S.S. Titanic, Jack Thayer, 1940. (Henceforth cited as Thayer, 1940.)
Please see Sam Halpern’s article, ‘Keeping Track of a Maiden Voyage’, available through his web
site, http://www.titanicology.com.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 1.
260.
261.
262.
263.
264.
265.
266.
267.
268.
269.
270.
271.
272.
273.
274.
275.
276.
277.
278.
279.
280.
281.
282.
283.
284.
285.
286.
287.
The Ilford Graphic, May 10, 1912. Account contained in full in On Board, Behe, 323–328.
Br. 16097–16099.
Titanic – Signals of Disaster, Booth and Coughlan.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 1.
TTSM, Vol. 2, 366. This is a ‘typical’ ending time for these Sunday services, and some room for
variance should be allowed.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Titanic – Signals of Disaster, Booth and Coughlan.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Titanic – Signals of Disaster, Booth and Coughlan.
Amer. 3–4; Br. 18386–18398.
Amer. 64.
Amer. 385.
Br. 3708–3792, testimony of Trimmer Thomas Dillon. Leading Fireman Frederick Barrett agreed
with Dillon (Br. 2202–2359) that the boilers in Boiler Room No. 1 remained unlit. Fireman Alfred
Shiers, on the other hand, said that the auxiliary boilers were lit (1913 Limitation of Liability
testimony). It makes little difference, as whether the boilers were lit or not, they would not yet
have been applied to the engines by midnight that night. However, Dillon was assigned to work in
Boiler Room No. 1, and was on duty just before midnight. As there was nothing to do in Boiler
Room No. 1 at the time, he and his men had been sent into the Reciprocating Engine Room to
‘assist in cleaning the gear’. (Br. 3714) On this point, Barrett and Dillon – both of whom were on
duty late on Sunday night – seem to be more reliable than Shiers. However, Shiers’ other
testimony – to the effect that the engines’ speed was increased at 7:00 p.m. Sunday night – seems
to harmonize well with aggregate evidence from many others.
Amer. 970–971.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
The Patriot, April 20, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 378.
Lawrence Beesley, in The Loss of the S.S. Titanic, recalled: ‘… going on deck after lunch we
found such a change in temperature that not many cared to remain to face the bitter wind, – an
artificial wind created mainly, if not entirely, by the ship’s rapid motion through the chilly
atmosphere. I should judge there was no wind blowing at the time…’
Yet Lookout Archie Jewell said (Br. 277) that a ‘strong breeze [was] blowing all that day’.
Lightoller also lamented to Captain Smith, between 8:55 and 9:25 p.m., over the calming of the
breeze from earlier in the day. Beesley seemed to base his supposition on the fact that when the
ship had been coming into Queenstown, he had felt a similar breeze, which had died off as the ship
came to anchor. However, it seems from the aggregate evidence that Beesley was quite mistaken
in attributing this wind solely to the forward motion of the ship through the atmosphere.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Ibid.
The Ilford Graphic, May 10, 1912. Account contained in full in On Board, Behe, 323–328.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Accounts provided by Mike Poirier.
Newport Herald, May 28, 29, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe, 217–226.
288.
289.
290.
291.
292.
293.
294.
295.
296.
297.
298.
299.
300.
301.
302.
303.
304.
305.
306.
307.
308.
309.
310.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, Friday, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 13448–13474.
Br. 16129–16131.
Br. 16122. The ‘DC’ in Washington, D.C. is quoted as ‘DS’ at the inquiry, but it is an obvious
transcription error that has been corrected in the main text.
Br. 16176.
Br. 18327–18337.
Br. 16178.
Amer. 1144.
Indiscretions, pg. 165.
Amer. 1100.
Seattle Daily Times, April 22–23, 1912. Quoted in full in On Board, Behe, 287–299. Mrs
Futrelle’s observations about everyone expecting to arrive on Wednesday do not harmonize with
her next statement, that everyone was ‘certain’ that the Titanic would ‘make her trip in record
time’. Most likely, she confused the two days; thus the bracketed ‘sic’ and correction.
Thayer, 1940.
Testimony at the Limitation of Liability Hearings. The New York Times, June 25, 1915.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Amer. 1147.
Miss Dowdell’s account is compiled from her accounts in The Hudson Dispatch, April 20, 1912;
The Jersey Journal, April 20, 1912; The Hudson Observer, April 20, 1912. The Amy Stanley
portion of the story is compiled from The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912 (full account available in
On Board, Behe, 402–403).
Br. 246–264; 272–277.
Pageant, October 1953. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
On Board, Behe, 404. The clocks were to be set back 47 minutes at midnight of Sunday, April 14.
Thus, from noon of April 14 to noon of April 15, when the run would be calculated, was some
24.78 hours of steaming time. 580 miles, divided by 24.78 hours, creates an average speed of 23.4
knots. Such a speed was very high. However, it was not entirely impossible for an Olympic-class
liner under favorable circumstances. During an east-bound crossing in 1924, the Olympic turned in
a 550-mile run, made on a 23 1/4-hour day. This meant that she had averaged over 23.5 knots
during that period. (Olympic Class [2011], 111.) However, this was when Olympic was operating
on oil fuel. A 34-mile gain – from the Titanic’s 546-mile run on Sunday to 580 on Monday – seems
like a high number. Yet the steward’s expectation does show that he was expecting the liner’s
speed to be increased significantly over the previous run.
The conversation between Bruce Ismay, Emily Ryerson, and Marian Thayer was clearly recounted
by Mrs Ryerson during her deposition at the Limitation of Liability Hearings into the disaster. The
information on Ismay’s personality comes from his 1937 obituary in The Times, as well as some
other Times articles: August 23, 1937, October 21, 1937, and October 23, 1937. The information on
whether or not the passengers could remain on board the ship overnight if the steamer docked late
is excerpted from White Star Line printed material made available to passengers on board the ship;
this was a longstanding company policy.
Br. 15110–15117. Although Pitman could not remember the ship’s name, the message’s contents
were clearly those of the message from the Caronia. Pitman could not recall the contents of the
second message, or what ship it had come from.
Br. 16879–16880.
311.
312.
313.
314.
315.
316.
317.
318.
319.
320.
321.
322.
Br. 16911–16913. Boxhall had forgotten that he did this until after Lowe testified to having seen
the note on the Officers’ Chart Room table. Either Boxhall made two copies, and placed a note on
each of the two charts, or he forgot leaving it in the Officers’ Chart Room as opposed to the
Captain’s personal Chart Room. It is also possible that Boxhall took it to the Captain’s Chart
Room, and that Captain Smith brought it back before Lowe sighted it ‘shortly after 6’ o’clock.
Br. 13700, 14834, 14835.
There is a difference between speed through the water and speed made good. A ship’s actual
geographic progress is affected by wind and currents. In Titanic’s case, the currents were
working somewhat against her, so that while she was making one speed through the water, she
was making an average geographic speed of 22.12 knots from noon to 11:40 p.m. that night.
Please see the box: ‘Did They Turn the Corner Late?’ for further information on this point. It also
seems that although the officers were planning to steer a course of 265° true toward New York,
Boxhall later discovered that the ship had actually been making 266° true since turning the corner,
due to compass deviation. Further details on this can be seen in Sam Halpern’s article ‘A Minute
of Time’, published in The Titanic Commutator, Nos 171, 172. Additional information can be found
in his article ‘Keeping Track of A Maiden Voyage’, published in White Star Journal, Vol. 14, No.
2.
Amer. 381.
The transcripts of the American Inquiry give Lowe as saying that it was 162 miles from the ship’s
noontime position to the corner. It’s either a transcription error, or Lowe accidentally reversed the
last two digits
Br. 15664.
Researcher Sam Halpern deserves full credit for working out the finer points of the Titanic’s
navigation throughout the voyage, and in particular the finer points of the ship’s navigation during
the afternoon and evening of Sunday, April 14. For a fuller explanation of how these estimates
were reached, we suggest that readers refer to Centennial Reappraisal, Chapters 5 and 13, as
well as the following articles by Sam Halpern: ‘Keeping Track of a Maiden Voyage’ (available
online at: http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/keeping_track.html); ‘Collision Point’ (available
online at: http://www.glts.org/articles/halpern/collision_point.html), and other articles available
online through Mr Halpern’s web site: www.titanicology.com.
Sworn statement by Lowe to the British Consulate in New York. Held in the collection of John
Creamer and cited with permission; Amer. 378.
Amer. 414–417; Br. 15777–15785; Sworn statement by Lowe to the British Consulate in New
York, held in the collection of John Creamer (available in full in On Board, Behe, 351–354).
Between his American and British testimony, there would seem to be some minor discrepancy
over exactly what frame this piece of note paper was stuck into – whether it was the frame of the
notice board over the table, or whether it was on the frame of the table itself. Looking at his
testimony, his wording seems to be better composed and thought out at the British Inquiry, where
he said it was on the Chart Room table. His statement given to the British Consulate in New York
agrees with his testimony at the British Inquiry. Thus, the current authors have selected this
statement to represent his experience. Readers should keep in mind, however, that either statement
could be the accurate representation of what happened that afternoon.
Br. 15128–15130, 15135–15139.
This approximation is based on the known positions of the ship at 5:50 p.m. (41° 56.5’ N, 47° 04’
W) and 7:30 p.m. (41° 52.5’ N, 47° 53’ W), as well as the average speed she made between those
two points. As the ship moved westward between those two positions, literally chasing the sun as it
set, this would have introduced a slight lengthening of the day. Based upon the known movements
of the sun in that latitude for that date, it would seem that a maximum three-minute range (6:50–
323.
324.
325.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
6:53 p.m.) should be allowed for, with the highest probability – mathematically, navigationally, and
astronomically – falling at an exact sunset time of about 6:52 p.m. Naturally, a small margin for
error should be allowed for on the use of this particular time, and thus the word ‘about’ is included
in the primary text.
Our thanks to Sam Halpern, not only for his original research in tracking down the movements
of the ship during the entire maiden voyage, but also in helping to confirm our calculations on this
point. These calculations also very closely approximate Second Officer Charles Lightoller’s
recollections at the British Inquiry:
13662. What time was it dark on this night?
- I think about half-past six, between half-past six and seven.
Br. 13601.
Br. 277–280.
Br. 13586.
CHAPTER 3: THE EVE OF DISASTER
Amer., 948; Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 18452.
Br. 18454, 18455.
Br. 18458.
Limitation of Liability Hearings, Deposition by Alfred Shiers.
Br. 17704–17710.
5:20 p.m. New York Time.
5:35 p.m. New York Time. Information in this paragraph taken from several different sources: the
testimony of Bride at both the US and British Inquiries, the testimony of Californian’s operator,
Cyril Evans at the British Inquiry, and the testimony of Marconi International Marine
Communication Co.’s Deputy-Manager in London, George E. Turnbull at the British Inquiry.
Bride mentioned that there were two transmissions, the first of which was directed to the
Titanic which he heard but ignored, and the second, sent to the Antillian, which he acknowledged
and took to the bridge. He was quite fuzzy on the times of the two transmissions, and the time that
separated them, however.
However the New York time of each message was clearly stated in Turnbull’s testimony. The
first was sent at 5:20 p.m. (7:22 p.m. Titanic apparent time) and the second at 5:35 p.m. (7:37
p.m., Titanic apparent time). During the proceedings, the court ‘roughed in’ that the 5:35 message
would have been ‘about 7:30’ Titanic time, but it is clear that Titanic’s clocks were 2 hours 2
minutes ahead of New York that evening. Many books which discuss this message say that it
arrived ‘at 7:30’, but it appears to have come in about seven minutes later than that.
Br. 16197.
Br. 16406; 16428–16432. If Bride’s estimate is correct, this means that he gave the slip to the
Officer of the Watch at about 7:39 p.m.
In his testimony at the British Inquiry Lightoller put his return to the bridge at 7:35 p.m.
However, Lightoller did not recall the delivery of the 7:37 p.m. message from the Californian
while he was on watch. Based on the evidence in hand, there are a couple of possibilities: the first
is that Lightoller came up a few minutes after 7:35, allowing time for the report to be handed to
Murdoch while he was serving as temporary Officer of the Watch, instead of to Lightoller directly;
the second is that Lightoller did receive the warning right from Bride’s hand, but that he later either
did not recall getting it, or that he merely claimed not to have seen it. Based on the evidence in
hand, we tend to believe the former possibility more than the latter. A final possibility is that Bride
handed the note to Pitman at about 7:40 p.m. after the third officer had finished taking the sights
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
with Lightoller, at the time that Pitman went into the Chart Room to begin the sight reduction
process, although Pitman either did not recallsuch an event or never seems to have mentioned it.
Lightoller’s reappearance on the Bridge, Murdoch’s departure, the stellar observations by
Lightoller and Pitman, and Bride’s delivery of the Californian’s wireless message – all of these
things took place in a very short space of time, leaving room for something to get overlooked or
forgotten along the way by those who survived.
Amer. 720–721.
Br. 13605–13606.
Br. 14670.
Br. 25060.
Br. 25062.
Br. 25063.
Br. 25112–25113.
Br. 25114.
Br. 25238, 25239.
Br. 25610, 25611.
Br. 25614.
Br. 276–280; Amer. 720. Captain Lord of the Californian testified at the American Inquiry that
from noon to 10:00 p.m., he experienced a north wind on that Sunday. As the two ships were then
converging on opposite courses, it is very likely that the north winds reported by Captain Lord
were the same ones that were reported by those on the Titanic, including Archie Jewell.
These weather details are rather important, as they helped to set the stage for the disaster which
followed. This is because as the breeze fell away, there was a decided lack of any whitecaps or
wave action which could have helped the lookouts spot the iceberg in time to avoid it. Lightoller
pointed that out to Captain Smith in their conversation on the Bridge between 8:55 and 9:25 p.m.
The information on these weather conditions has been pieced together from testimony such as
Lightoller’s, Jewell’s, Captain Lord’s (of the Californian), as well as from other sources. Please
also see ‘Titanic: Changing Reality’ by Mark Chirnside and Sam Halpern (available at:
http://www.markchirnside.co.uk/TitanicChangingReality.html); see endnote 17 of their article for
further references.
Amer. 340.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Amer. 1101.
Amer. 948.
Washington Herald, April 21, 1912.
In her deposition to the American Inquiry, Daisy Minahan said that she spotted ‘Mr. and Mrs.
Harris’ dining in the Restaurant with them on the evening of Sunday, April 14. First-hand accounts
from May Futrelle show clearly that they were dining with the Harrises, and from reading her
accounts without any other information from Miss Minahan, one would initially believe that they
were dining in the D Deck Saloon, as she used the term ‘saloon’ rather than ‘restaurant’.
However, a closer inspection of her accounts gives a few clues. During her dinner account, she
said that one had to look out the portholes to realize that they were at sea. This would have been
impossible in the D Deck Saloon, as the portholes were covered with decorative backlit glass. On
the other hand, the B Deck Restaurant had windows, not portholes. However, she also said that
the orchestra played during dinner; the five-man orchestra only began playing in the Reception
Room, not the Dining Saloon, at 8:00 p.m. Meanwhile, the trio in the Restaurant did play all through
dinner. Additionally, she called their dining area as the ‘luxurious saloon after-deck’, which might
better indicate a saloon located aft, which the à la carte Restaurant was.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
While there may be room for interpretation in either direction, at this point it seems best to place
them in the B Deck Restaurant than in the D Deck Saloon. However, further information on the
point may come to light either way.
These quotations come from Mrs Futrelle’s account, found in the Seattle Daily Times of April 22,
23, 1912. The account, in its entirety, can be read in On Board, Behe, 287–299.
Ibid.
May Futrelle’s account, Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, perhaps of April 29, 1912 (the date is
unclear). The full account can be read in On Board, Behe, 300–308.
Amer. 948.
Interestingly, nearly every second-hand reference to this dinner party states that it was held in
Captain Smith’s honor. However, first-hand evidence on this seems rather scant, so it may be
apocryphal.
Washington Herald, April 21, 1912. Luis Klein, allegedly an Able Bodied Seaman on Titanic,
made unsubstantiated claims that Captain Smith and other officers had been drunk at the time of
the sinking, and that one of the lookouts on watch was asleep at the time of the collision
(Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 23, 1912). Klein was cross-examined by the Marshall’s office in
Cleveland, who found his story credible. He claimed that he was willing to repeat everything he
had said in the Senate Inquiry. However, when he was subpoenaed and brought to New York, he
fled from his hotel the night before he was to be called to testify (Amer. 516). Klein’s claims were
discredited when it was discovered that he was not listed on any of the crew lists, and there was
no evidence that he had ever been aboard the ship at all.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Smith’s presence and visibility were mentioned by Bruce Ismay (Amer. 948), as well as many of
the other passengers who left recollections of the dinner in the Restaurant that night. However,
Ismay could not see Major Butt, apparently because he was seated within the alcove.
Letter by Mrs Thayer to President Taft, located in the William H. Taft papers, Library of
Congress. Available in full in On Board, Behe, 414–416.
Testimony of Charles Stengel, (Amer. 980), reporting Gertrude Thorne’s statement to him. It is
possible that the couple was at the Widener’s dinner party, for they were known by sight to both
May Futrelle and Irene Harris, both among the upper echelon of Titanic’s First Class passengers.
However, it is also possible that they were only eating nearby in the Restaurant, and that they saw
Captain Smith at a table near their own.
Amer. 1151.
The New York Times, April 13, 1912.
The phrase ‘Darby and Joan’ is typically used to described a happily married older couple. The
term is typically used to describe such couples who live in humble circumstances, so the sarcasm
in applying the term to the Strauses is obvious. The phrase’s origins go back to the early 1700s, at
least.
Indiscretions, 165–166.
Amer. 1149.
Amer. 1100–1101.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912; Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown). Both accounts are contained in their
entirety within On Board, Behe.
Amer. 273.
Amer. 272.
Amer. 275.
Ibid.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
Amer. 223.
Amer. 458.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Mrs Cassebeer’s account can be read in full in On Board,
Behe, 235–237. Also an account by Mrs Hoyt given in the Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April
23, 1912. Additional private accounts also provided by NMM/Mike Poirier Collection.
Vera Dick (née Gillespie) was born on June 12, 1894.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
F. Dent Ray’s testimony at the US Inquiry (pages 800–801) is very clear that he last saw Mr and
Mrs Clark at Sunday’s lunch. Mr Clark was lost in the disaster, and accounts from Mrs Clark
about dinner that evening seem to be nonexistent. Either the couple skipped their dinner that night,
or they dined in the Restaurant.
Thayer, 1940.
This account is quoted in On Board, Behe, 404–409.
The Oregonian, April 27, 1912.
Amer. 332.
The Coshocton Tribune, April 19, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
On Board, Behe, 148.
On Board, Behe, 404.
Amer. 332.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 7.
The Syracuse Herald, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Beesley, Ch. 2.
Rochester Democrat and Chronicle, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Lillian Bentham had
been born in Holley, New York; while she had been traveling in Europe, her family had moved to
Rochester.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912.
Br. 16450, 16451.
Br. 16409–10.
Br. 16457–16469.
Br. 16470–16475.
Br. 16482.
Amer. 1149. Mrs Smith said that there was ‘a coffee room directly outside the café, in which
people sat and listened to the music and drank coffee and cordials after dinner… I stayed up until
10.30, and then went to bed. I passed through the coffee room, and Mr. Ismay and his party were
still there’. Although her account leaves some room for interpretation, it does not seem that Ismay
had gone to the Café Parisien, as Mrs Smith had. Instead, it seems that she was referring to the
Restaurant Reception Room, at the base of the Aft First Class Grand Staircase.
Amer. 1149.
Amer. 980.
Clearly Captain Smith did not leave the Restaurant before 8:45, according to Mrs Smith; it is also
clear that Daisy Minahan’s time estimates for that evening are a rather mixed bag of accurate and
inaccurate. Miss Minahan was very clear that they entered the Restaurant at 7:15 p.m. according
to the ship’s clocks. However, she was apparently basing her 9:25 and 9:45 p.m. estimates off
another watch, perhaps her brother’s, which seems to have been inaccurate by about 45 minutes.
From the larger picture, it is very clear that by 8:45, things were really beginning to wind down in
the Restaurant. It is most logical to conclude that very shortly after Mrs Smith saw the Captain at
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
the Widener’s table at 8:45, he departed and headed directly to the Bridge, where he met with
Second Officer Lightoller by 8:55 p.m. It was Miss Minahan who remembered Captain Smith
having a cup of coffee just prior to his departure.
Amer. 66. This is based on Lightoller’s recollection: ‘Probably one of us said “Good evening”.’
Some variation should be allowed for between the event and Lightoller’s apparently fuzzy
recollection in his testimony.
Amer. 67; Br. 14421.
Amer. 67, Br. 13635. Lightoller allowed for a range of times for his conversation with the Captain
to end, in his aggregate testimony between both Inquiries. Since his order to the lookouts came at
about 9:30, however, and it was given a few minutes after the Captain left, it seems likely that the
Captain parted from Lightoller at about 9:25 p.m. However, it should be noted that this is an
estimate and could be off by a couple of minutes in either direction.
Amer. 226–227.
Br. 17–29; Br. 925–932; Amer. 450; Br. 11334–11339; Br. 13656–13661. Standby Quartermaster
Hichens heard Lightoller give this order to Moody shortly after returning from taking a message to
the Carpenter about the fresh water tanks. Lookouts George Symons and Archie Jewell both
remembered the message and passed it on. The timing of this order is confirmed by Lightoller,
Jewell, and Symons. Hichens did not give an exact time for it, but his testimony does fit well with
the 9:30 p.m. estimate. This is because he said that the phone order to the lookouts occurred a
‘couple of minutes’ after he returned from his trip to the Carpenter. He also said that he was
thereafter ordered to make another excursion, and that he had returned in time to call out First
Officer Murdoch at 9:45 p.m.
Br. 13667–13671.
Br. 11339–11341.
Br. 13676, 14289–14291. According to Lightoller (14325–14328) there was a pair of glasses for
each senior officer and one for the Captain, as well as a pair of pilot glasses – all available. Thus,
Lightoller felt that at any point during the crossing, a pair would have been available on the Bridge.
Amer. 450.
Bullock, Chapter 7.
Thayer, 1940.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
The Evening World, April 22, 1912; Notes of Walter Lord’s interview with Katie Manning, née
Gilnagh; conducted on 07/20/55. Courtesy of Paul Lee. Note that Katie Gilnagh’s full name was
Mary Katherine Gilnagh.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. This story is a reprint of Shelley’s account that she wrote for
the Powell County Post in Deer Lodge, Montana. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Indiscretions, 167.
Amer. 332.
A Night to Remember, 1976 Edition, pg. 203. The Countess of Rothes gave this information
directly to Walter Lord. Unfortunately, in the telling and retellings over the last half-century, it
seems that the Countess’ recollections have become garbled, leading to an apparent impossibility.
The Countess told Lord that ‘while dining out with friends a year after the disaster – she
suddenly experienced the awful feeling of cold and intense horror she always associated with the
Titanic. For an instant she couldn’t imagine why. Then she realized the orchestra was playing ‘The
Tales of Hoffman’, the last piece of after-dinner music played that fateful Sunday night’.
In the years since then, this has somehow become garbled into the Countess saying that
Barcarolle was the final piece played at dinner that night. However, she did not say that the piece
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
was played ‘at dinner’, but rather it was ‘the last piece of after-dinner music’. Then again, she did
not even specify Barcarolle as the piece in question; The Tales of Hoffman, by Jacques
Offenbach, was an opera in three acts (Barcarolle was featured in the Second Act), so the piece
in question – while probably the famous Barcarolle (which was listed in the White Star Line
Songbook that Hartley and the other musicians worked from) – may have been another piece from
the same opera.
On Board, Behe, 404.
The Truth About the Titanic, Chs 1–2. Although Gracie did not say the time he retired, he did say
that he was awakened at around midnight, and that by that point he had gotten ‘nearly three hours
of invigorating sleep’.
Br. 15735.
Br. 4383–4399.
Br. 15445–15551; Amer. 226–227. Boxhall remained on duty after Lightoller handed the watch
over to Murdoch at 10:00 p.m. In this stretch of testimony, he remembered seeing the Captain
‘[o]n and off, [for] most of the watch’, from about 9:00 p.m. on. He also remembered that Smith
was ‘frequently’ in the Wheelhouse. However, Lightoller did not mention seeing him again after
they parted company on the main Bridge at about 9:25. He said: ‘If he [Captain Smith] had been
actually on the bridge, yes, I should have seen him.’ (Amer. 66) However, the statement seemed to
leave open the possibility that the Captain could have appeared in the Chart Room or the enclosed
Wheelhouse before he left his watch. Lightoller believed that the Captain would not have gone to
bed under those conditions, but would rather have remained in his personal Navigating Room – the
forward-most room of his suite, which had a window facing forward to the starboard Bridge wing
– ‘where he would be handy to pop out on the bridge’. (Br. 13772)
When pieced together, Boxhall’s recollections could suggest that Captain Smith occasionally
ventured out during Murdoch’s watch, after 10:00 p.m. If so, it is possible that the Captain was
checking to make sure that weather conditions were not deteriorating at all. This suggests that
Captain Smith’s involvement with the ship’s navigation during the last 2½ hours of the voyage,
leading up to the collision, was greater than is generally presumed. This could be why he was so
quick to arrive on the Bridge immediately after the collision, fully dressed, although it is probable
that he had been in his room (Br. 1025–1027) at the actual time that the iceberg was sighted and
the collision took place. However, as he was fully dressed when he appeared on the Bridge
following the collision, it is very likely he had not turned in for bed even up to that point. Possibly
this was due to a heightened sense of the need for diligence from around 11:00 p.m. on, when it
was expected they would reach the ice reported by wireless.
For information on whether the ship’s clocks were adjusted at 10:00 p.m., please see the Appendix
D: What Time Is It?
Amer. 450. Murdoch would have arrived on the Bridge at 10:00 p.m. exactly, or possibly just
before 10:00. The conversation with Lightoller seems to have run on for a few minutes while
Murdoch’s night vision became adjusted; meanwhile, the change of Quartermasters at the helm
seems to have been something that would have been very quick to carry out, since night vision was
not required in the enclosed Wheelhouse.
It would thus seem that the course was called out to the officers on the Bridge while they
conversed. Hichens was not clear on which of the two officers Quartermaster Olliver had
reported the course to, and received a response from, as he naturally could not see outside the
Wheelhouse. It would seem that this routine course-check was carried out while Lightoller and
Murdoch conversed prior to Lightoller’s departure.
Amer. 458.
Br. 965–966.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
Amer. 68.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Ibid. Lightoller and other officers did not give much information on what the rounds consisted of in
their testimony at the formal Inquiries. Lightoller did mention (Amer. 89) that it did bring him into
contact with the passengers, although he did not necessarily encounter passengers every time he
made the rounds.
Br. 17579, 17580.
Amer. 971.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
On Board, Behe, 148.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912; Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown); both accounts are contained in On Board,
Behe.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
On Board, Behe, 404.
Amer. 1101.
Bruce Ismay’s account to the Berkshire Evening Eagle, April 22, 1912. Ismay did not mention
spending time in the Restaurant Reception Room, as Mrs Smith so clearly recalled him doing.
However, this was more of an omission than some sort of deception; the Restaurant Reception
Room was adjacent the Restaurant itself, and it was quite natural for passengers to view the afterdinner socializing in the adjacent Reception Room as being connected to the meal.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912.
Amer. 332.
Deposition of George Rheims given in U.S. District Court during the Limitation of Liability
hearings, November 14, 1913. Rheims doesn’t mention Latimer by name, but describes the
steward in question as ‘the Commodore Steward, because I think he is the oldest steward’.
Thayer, 1940.
9:05 p.m. New York Time.
Amer. 735.
Quartermaster Rowe first mentioned these ‘whiskers’ to Titanic author Walter Lord in June of
1953, while Lord was researching his book, A Night to Remember. The first letter Rowe sent
(available through Paul Lee’s web site at http://www.paullee.com/titanic/gtrowe.html) only
mentioned the phenomenon. Further details were apparently supplied to Lord after a subsequent
query to Rowe. Lord then included this information in A Night to Remember, 33.
Titanic Survivor, 124–125.
Amer. 332.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Duluth News Tribune, May 2, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Hartford Times, April 19, 1912. Account available in full in On Board, Behe, 174–177.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Washington Herald, April 19, 1912.
Amer. 649.
Amer. 1142.
Amer. 332–333.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
The Hartford Times, April 19, 1912. Account available in full in On Board, Behe, 174–177.
April 20, 1912 account by Jack Thayer. George Behe collection. Account in full available in On
Board, Behe, 412–414; also Thayer, 1940.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912; Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown; both accounts are contained in On Board,
Behe.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Miss Dowdell’s account is compiled from her accounts in The Hudson Dispatch, April 20, 1912;
The Jersey Journal, April 20, 1912; The Hudson Observer, April 20, 1912. The Amy Stanley
portion of the story is compiled from The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912 (full account available in
On Board, Behe, 402–403).
Amer. 526.
Amer. 736. Californian’s clocks were adjusted about 12 minutes ahead of Titanic’s time (See
Appendices D, R), and Evans recalled overhearing Phillips at work with Cape Race between 11:25
and 11:30 p.m. – more specifically, ‘two or three minutes before the half hour ship’s time’, or
11:27–11:28. This would have equated to 11:39–11:40 by the time kept aboard Titanic.
This is the average speed which the liner had maintained in actual geographical movement. Her
actual speed through the water was higher, but her forward progress was being retarded by the
currents.
BBC radio interview with Commander Joseph Boxhall, first broadcast on October 22, 1962. The
recording of this interview is available online at http://www.bbc.co.uk/archive/titanic/5049.shtml.
Boxhall’s later admission of being in his cabin drinking tea at the time of the warning from the
Crow’s Nest is stunning if true, because it means Boxhall was in his cabin while he supposed to be
on watch.
In his 1912 testimony, Boxhall only said that he was coming out of the Officers’ Quarters when
he heard the bells, but he offered no explanation of what he had been doing there. Boxhall is
known to have suffered from pleurisy right after the sinking. Symptoms of pleurisy can include
stabbing pains in the chest, shortness of breath, coughing, fever or chills, etc. If Boxhall was
feeling ill during the maiden voyage, it may offer an explanation for why he would have been
drinking tea in his cabin while on duty that night. To leave his post, logically it would only have been
with First Officer Murdoch’s express permission.
For more information on the intended clock setback that night, please see Appendix D: What Time
Is It?
Br. 17391.
Br. 2435.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
CHAPTER 4: RENDEZVOUS WITH DESTINY
Amer. 526.
Amer. 450.
Amer. 318. Fleet’s recollection of the timing is at a sharp variance with the depiction in the 1997
film, which shows Fleet ringing down for some seconds, frustrated that no one is answering, and
shows Moody rounding a corner from the port side aft and heading over to the phone before
answering it.
Amer. 318.
Amer. 450; Amer. 318. In the testimony given about this statement, a period is usually used to end
the quotation. However, on the night in question it was almost certainly a more imperative
statement, particularly considering the need to relay the order clearly through the telephone without
repeating it if, say, a more soft-spoken word was not distinctly heard by Moody. Thus the present
authors have supplied an exclamation mark.
Amer. 318.
Admittedly, it is speculation that Murdoch had spotted the iceberg by that point, but it would seem
to be logical, as Murdoch was lower to the water and thus in an even better position to spot the
berg than the lookouts were, having a more direct line-of-sight to the horizon.
As simple as the ‘right ahead’ part of the bell warning might seem, an object ‘right ahead’
might actually be only partially obstructing the ship’s path, and might extend more to port than to
starboard, or vice versa.
Amer. 450; Br. 986.
Amer. 318; Amer. 456–457.
Br. 973.
TTSM, Vol. 1, 523–524.
Amer. 450.
From the door on the starboard side of the Officers’ Quarters to the Bridge was a distance of
about sixty feet. In his testimony, Boxhallsaid that he heard the warning bell just as he was coming
out of the Officers’ Quarters. (Br. 15343, 15344) However, he also said that he felt the collision
‘only a moment or two after that’. (Br. 15345). Walking from that doorway to the Bridge should
not have taken the entire time that it took from warning to evasive action to collision. The timing of
Boxhall’s testimony simply doesn’t add up. It thus seems more likely that he was still in his cabin
having tea when the warning came, and that he left in response to hearing the warning bell.
Amer. 361–362.
Br. 2425.
A thorough analysis of this point by Captain Charles B. Weeks, Jr, was placed in the article, ‘Was
the Titanic’s Rudder Large Enough?’, now available on the Encyclopedia Titanica site at
http://www.encyclopediatitanica.org/titanic-rudder.html.
Br. 942. It might be argued that if anyone had motive to under-estimate the turning characteristics
of the Titanic, it was the man at the wheel during the collision. Yet even Hichens was willing to
say that the Titanic handled well.
Please see Appendix F: The Iceberg Damage for further information.
Amer. 527–528. Please see Appendix E: Taking Evasive Action for further details on this subject.
Br. 15350.
Br. 15349–15355; Amer. 531.
Amer. 531. It is established that the Lusitania and Mauretania had such equipment on their
Bridge, and that when the light was illuminated, the door was recorded as being open; that, when
the door was closed, the light went off. Perhaps this was due to the different systems of door
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
operation, or perhaps it was only included on the Cunarders because they were built to meet
Admiralty requirements. Whatever the case, no such indicator panel seems to have been installed
on the Titanic.
Amer. 456–457.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
Br. 4201–4203.
Br. 1860–1916.
Br. 661a–686.
Amer. 521–523; Br. 17600–17608; letters from George Rowe to Titanic Historical Society
President Ed Kamuda, dated 1963, and published in The Titanic Commutator, No 156.
Br. 13739–13746; Amer. 58–59.
Br. 14930–14933; Amer. 275–276.
Pageant, October, 1953. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Interestingly, Miss Rosenbaum’s recollections of
the collision are stronger than most from that area of the ship. It is quite likely that if she was
thrown off balance, it was because she was not well-planted on her feet at that particular moment.
It is also possible that she was giving a slightly embellished version of the collision for readers in
this account, given forty-one years after that night. However, it does not seem outlandish enough to
exclude from the narrative; readers should place it in the context of what other passengers
recalled.
The reference to the floor of her room seeming tilted does not seem to indicate an immediate
list from flooding – which would have been reported by others simultaneous to the impact and
stopping of the engines – but rather to the heel the ship took as she responded to the ‘hard to port’
maneuver that First Officer Murdoch had given.
Deposition of George Rheims given in U.S. District Court during the Limitation of Liability
hearings, November 14, 1913.
The Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Chicago Evening Post, April 23, 1912. Account reproduced in On Board, Behe, 344.
Indiscretions, 167; second newspaper account provided by Mike Poirier. Some additional details,
but not quotes, from On Board, Behe, 280–283.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 264–277.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Coshocton Tribune, April 19, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Minneapolis World, (date unknown). Courtesy Mike Poirier. Additional details (but not quotes)
were found in John Snyder’s account of April 24, 1912, which can be read in On Board, Behe,
401–402.
The Berkshire Evening Eagle, April 22, 1912. Account available in full in On Board, Behe, 332–
335; Br. 18505; Amer. 3.
On Board, Behe, 148–150.
April 20, 1912 account by Jack Thayer. George Behe collection. Account in full in On Board,
Behe, 412–414; also Thayer, 1940.
Amer. 333.
Amer. 971.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Account reproduced in On Board, Behe, 208–209.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912; Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown); both accounts are contained in On Board,
Behe.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Ibid.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Deposition of Elizabeth Lines, given as part of the Limitation of Liability hearings, November 24,
1913; Boston Traveler, April 15, 1966; unknown newspaper, August 6, 1975; letter from Miss
Mary Lines to her friend Miss Helen Iselin, April 16, 1912, as published in On Board, Behe. The
progressing story of Mrs Lines and her daughter Mary are taken from the above sources. The
authors would like to thank Mike Poirier for providing us with copies of the Lines’ newspaper
articles from his collection.
The Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In other and much later accounts,
also provided by NMM/Mike Poirier Collection, she mentioned tying her long stockings with
lingerie ribbons and putting on a pair of high-button shoes, but her different accounts give some
minor variations, so the current authors are deciding to go with the earliest account on this point,
closest to the time of the sinking.
Accounts provided by Mike Poirier. One question that arises: what cabins were Emma Schabert
and Philipp Mock assigned to? Neither names appear on the ‘Cave List’, which contained the
cabin assignments for many First Class passengers.
It has been speculated that Emma Schabert had a C Deck cabin, one of her accounts suggests
that her room was both on the starboard side of the ship and that it was numbered ‘28’. Only E
Deck cabins on the starboard side would have had an even number. Most likely, Mrs Schabert was
in cabin E-28, although this is merely speculation based on the evidence in hand. This conclusion
was first suggested by Craig Stringer and included in an article written by Mike Poirier on Philipp
Mock and Emma Schabert. Up to the date of this writing, no evidence has been presented that
cabin E-28 was occupied by a passenger other than Mrs Schabert.
Philipp Mock’s cabin is uncertain, but it was apparently very close to Emma Schabert’s, as he
met her immediately after the shock of the collision.
The Evening Tribune, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Duluth Herald, May 1, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Newport Herald, May 28, 29, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe, 217–226.
Account provided by Mike Poirier (April 24, 1912); Amer. 1041–1042. In Bertha Chambers’
account of April 24, 1912, she did not mention her husband’s solo trip top-side before returning,
collecting her, and heading back up together.
Newburgh Daily News, April 26, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Hartford Times, April 19, 1912. Account available in full On Board, Behe, 174–177.
Amer. 883.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Stars and Stripes, April 16, 1955. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Rochester Democrat & Chronicle, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Toronto World, April 19, 1912. Available in On Board, Behe, 157; Beesley, Ch. 3.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Patriot, April 20, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Indianapolis Star, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Rockford Republic, April 25, 1912.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
Palladium Times, September 1, 1985. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Ilford Graphic, May 10, 1912. Account contained in full in On Board, Behe, 323–328.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
The Fort Wayne Sentinel, April 29, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Washington Post Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 26, 1912. Full account available in On Board,
Behe, 246–254.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Syracuse Herald, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Pawtucket Times, May 22, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Miss Dowdell’s account is compiled from her accounts in The Hudson Dispatch, April 20, 1912;
The Jersey Journal, April 20, 1912; The Hudson Observer, April 20, 1912. The Amy Stanley
portion of the story is compiled from The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912 (available in On Board,
Behe 402–403).
Awake! October 22, 1981, pgs 3–7.
Palladium Times, September 11, 1985. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
In a letter home to his younger sister Maggie Daly which was published in several newspapers,
Daly stated that he was in ‘compartment 23, Deck C, steerage’. However, there were no steerage
accommodations on C Deck. It is possible that he meant cabin C-23 on F Deck, just aft of
Watertight Bulkhead B. However, on deck plans, this cabin is listed as having only two berths, and
in his letter, Daly plainly states that he shared his cabin with two other men. A later account may
clear up the mystery. In a press interview given decades after the sinking, Daly stated that he was
berthed in cabin Q-43 with two other men, towards the bow, and that his ticket was marked ‘Cabin
Q-43’. Again, there is a problem. There was no cabin 43 in section Q. However, an analysis of the
details in Daly’s accounts indicates that he was likely berthed in cabin F-43, near the bunker hatch
and watertight bulkhead C, on F Deck. Unlike cabin C-23 on F Deck, deck plans show that this
cabin had four berths. Regardless of which of these two cabins he was in, the noise and impact of
the collision would have been tremendous. The authors would like to thank Sam Halpern for
helping them interpret the evidence relating to Daly’s cabin.
The Irish Sunday Press, June/July 1956, courtesy of Geoff Whitfield; East Galway Democrat,
May 11, 1912.
Utica Herald-Dispatch, April 30, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 577.
Amer. 649–650.
Titanic Survivor, Ch. 20. Unfortunately, Jessop used pseudonyms for most of the other people
that she came into contact with during the Titanic’s voyage; in her memoirs she called her cabinmate ‘Ann Turnbull’, but there was no Ann Turnbull signed on for the trip, leading one to question
who her cabin-mate was. It is known that Jessop and her cabin-mate were rescued in the same
boat, which was Boat No. 16. Some have speculated that Stewardess Elizabeth Leather, who also
left in No. 16, was her cabin-mate. However, according to Leather’s testimony at the British
Inquiry, she was asleep for half-an-hour to three-quarters of an hour after the time of the collision,
which is at odds with Jessop’s account. It is possible that Jessop’s account is flawed, but another
possibility is that the stewardess in question was Evelyn Marsden, who was also picked up in Boat
No. 16.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 802.
Amer. 596.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike
Poirier).
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
Amer. 883.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Stars and Stripes, April 16, 1955. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier
The Hartford Times, April 19, 1912. Account available in full in On Board, Behe, 174–177.
Br. 15353.
Amer. 229
Br. 1025–1036; Amer. 450; 531; 533.
Br. 15355; Amer. 230.
The fact that these three officers went out on to the starboard wing in order to spot the iceberg
immediately after the collision lends weight to other existing evidence that Murdoch had reversed
his turn to ‘port around’ the iceberg. If the ship had remained under starboard helm (turning her
bow to port) then the natural place to go in order to see the iceberg would have been the port side
wing. Instead, all three men first went to the starboard side.
In his October 1962 BBC radio interview, Boxhall stated that nobody told him to go below, but that
he did this on his own. If this later recollection is correct, it is still likely that Boxhall would have
needed to ask Captain Smith for permission to leave the Bridge.
The Berkshire Evening Eagle, April 22, 1912. Account available in On Board, Behe, 332–335;
Br. 18506–18509; Amer. 3.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 264–277.
Amer. 333.
The Loss of the S.S. Titanic, Lawrence Beesley, 1912, Ch. 3.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Fort Wayne Sentinel, April 29, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Rochester Democrat & Chronicle, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier; additional details also supplied by
Mike Poirier.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Duluth Herald, May 1, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 4002–4005.
The Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Andrews’ movements in the
minutes immediately following the collision have been a source of speculation over the years.
However, this sighting may help to lay much of that speculation to rest. Miss Cassebeer’s location
can be surmised through her statement that they were at ‘the bow of the boat’. Obviously, they
could not have been standing at the Forecastle, which was off-limits to passengers; they were also
looking down upon the ice on the Well Deck. This could not have been done from the forward
edge of the Boat Deck, which was off-limits to passengers. However, it could have been done at
the forward end of the Promenade Deck or the walkway below on B Deck. Most likely, it was on
A Deck, as a group is known to have gathered there and Andrews’ cabin was also on A Deck.
It likely took Cassebeer less than five minutes to reach this location from her D Deck
stateroom. While the pair were standing there, Andrews met them, unaccompanied by any of the
ship’s officers. This suggests that Andrews felt the collision and immediately went out on deck to
investigate for himself, moving forward along A Deck, until he met up with Miss Cassebeer. From
there, he may have gone up to the Bridge to talk to Captain Smith; alternatively, he may have gone
aft to the Entrance, and thence down the forward Grand Staircase to the lower decks for a
damage inspection. Miss Cassebeer’s account is almost certainly the first post-collision sighting of
Andrews.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
The New York Herald, April 19 & 20, 1912.
Amer. 333.
Pageant, October 1953. Courtesy Mike Poirier. It seems that Miss Rosenbaum, Mr Stead, and Mr
Millet were all part of the group referred to by Mrs Cassebeer when Thomas Andrews came by.
On Board, Behe.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Chicago Evening Post, April 23, 1912. See On Board, Behe, 344.
On Board, Behe.
Limitation of Liability Deposition by Rheims.
Amer. 577.
Scarrott’s account and quotations are taken from his testimony at the British Inquiry, Br. 335–347;
also The Sphere (quoted in Voices, 142).
Amer. 526–537. Many theories have been presented as to why Smith ordered the ship ‘Slow
Ahead’ after the collision when he did not yet know the extent of the damage. Some of these
theories are highly speculative, such as Ismay somehow pressuring Smith to continue ahead since
they were trying to break the Olympic’s crossing record, and the Captain trying to reach the vessel
on the horizon. While dramatic, neither of these theories stand up to scrutiny, particularly the one
regarding the nearby ship, since there is no evidence anyone had yet spotted it. It is more likely
that after Murdoch’s ‘Stop’ order prior to the collision, Smith was simply trying to maintain the
vessel’s forward motion, to get a safe distance away from the iceberg it had just struck, before
stopping for good.
Br. 3716–3729.
Throughout this chapter, the timeline and chronology of events following the collision will be as
detailed and reported in Centennial Reappraisal, Chapters 7 and 13. Chapter 13 contains a highly
detailed chronology of the Titanic’s sinking, with all information referenced for further research.
Details on the post collision actions, inspections, etc., as well as the lifeboat launching
chronology are contained in Chapter 7 of the aforementioned book, and in substantially more detail
in the article, ‘Titanic: The Lifeboat Launching Sequence Re-Examined’, by Bill Wormstedt, Tad
Fitch and George Behe, with contributions by Sam Halpern and J. Kent Layton. The original
version of this article was published in edited form in The Titanic Commutator, No. 155, 2001; a
revised and unabridged version of this article was released online in 2006, and continues to be
revised as additional evidence is brought to light. This article is available at the following URL:
http://www.wormstedt.com/Titanic/lifeboats/lifeboats.htm.
Beesley, Ch. 3.
The Indianapolis Star, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Palladium Times, September 11, 1985. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Account reproduced in full in On Board, Behe, 208–
209.
Newport Herald, May 28, 29, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe 217–226.
Br. 17116. Hemming’s statement might at first seem to imply that they descended to the Tank Top
– the level of the boilers and engines. However, the top of the Tank was actually on the Orlop
Deck. Hemming apparently meant that they descended to the top of the tank, not the Tank Top.
Amer. 656, 664; Br. 17710–17733. Hemming and Haines each gave slightly different recollections
of the conversation. The wording given in the text is stitched together from each of these
recollections, and represents the most likely way the conversation played out.
Br. 13753–13756. In his British Inquiry testimony, Lightoller mentioned that he saw Murdoch on
the port wing before he crossed back over to the starboard side, where he saw Captain Smith.
There, from his other testimony, it seems clear that he saw Captain Smith peering into the darkness
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
astern. And yet, Boxhall had testified that he, Murdoch and Smith went on the starboard wing right
after the collision. It appears that after Boxhall left the Bridge, Murdoch moved off toward the port
Bridge wing, and Captain Smith remained on the starboard wing just long enough for Lightoller to
spot him when he stuck his nose out the door on that side.
Br. 13753–13758. Lightoller had noticed that the engines were stopped while he was lying in his
bunk, but by the time he went out on deck, the ship was proceeding slowly ahead again, which
confirms the observations of Quartermaster Olliver, Trimmer Dillon, Lawrence Beesley, etc.
Amer. 58–60; Br. 13761. Lightoller testified that he emerged on the port Boat Deck 2–3 minutes
after the collision, where he bumped into Pitman. The two men ‘conferred’ for some unspecified
time. Apparently it was after Pitman returned to his cabin that Lightoller crossed over to the
starboard side and peered out the door toward the Bridge. He did not mention seeing anyone else
on the Bridge with them; Boxhall must thus have already left on his initial inspection by that point.
Amer. 450–45. In the British Inquiry, Hichens gave a vaguer description of these events, and
makes it sound as if Smith noted the 5° list after he gave the order to swing the lifeboats out, and
begin serving the lifebelts to the passengers. However, in the Senate Inquiry, Hichens gave a more
detailed description of this event, and was explicit that the timing was 5 minutes after the collision.
Br. 18503–18514; The Berkshire Evening Eagle, April 22, 1912. Full account contained in On
Board, Behe 332–335.
Since Murdoch ordered the ship ‘hard to port’ following the collision in order to swing the stern
away from the iceberg, the Titanic started turning to starboard, and when the speed ran down, she
would have ended up pointing north-northwest. Both Fifth Officer Lowe and Quartermaster Rowe
confirm that the ship was indeed pointing north as it sank (Deposition of H. G. Lowe before the
British Consulate General in New York, May 1912; Br. 17671). Confirming this, the bow section of
the Titanic sits on the ocean floor pointing northward, where it fell after planing away from the
surface. Tests conducted in water tanks by the Discovery Channel in the 1990s with a model of
the Titanic’s bow section indicate that it would have remained facing roughly in the direction it was
facing when it sank, rather than spiraling or twisting on the way to the ocean floor. Further
clarification of this point is available in Sam Halpern’s article ‘Collision Point’ at
http://www.glts.org/articles/halpern/collision_point.html.
TTSM, Vol. 1, 297. After studying dozens of survivor accounts of the timing between the collision
and subsequent events, the current authors have been led to conclude that the ship’s engines were
rung off very shortly after the collision, probably at around 11:46, and that the steam began to blow
off very quickly after that point – likely even before 11:50. This makes sense, as the ship’s steamgenerating system was under very high pressure that evening, and it would not have taken long for
that pressure to pop the safeties.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller.
Deposition of Elizabeth Lines, given as part of the Limitation of Liability hearings, November 24,
1913; Boston Traveler, April 15, 1966; unknown newspaper, August 6, 1975; letter from Miss
Mary Lines to her friend Miss Helen Iselin, April 16, 1912, as published in On Board, Behe. The
progressing story of Mrs Lines and her daughter Mary are taken from the above sources. The
authors would like to thank Mike Poirier for providing us with copies of the Lines newspaper
articles from his collection.
The Hartford Times, April 19, 1912. Account available in full in On Board, Behe, 174–177.
Washington Post Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 26, 1912. Full account available in On Board,
Behe, 246–254.
Amer. 577. Hogg was very precise in saying that he was awakened ‘at 20 minutes to 12’ and then
he had gone out on deck. However, when he returned to his room, he felt the need to ask Evans
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
what time it was. The two men were due to go on duty at 12:23 a.m., unadjusted ship’s time, or
midnight precisely once the clocks had been reset.
If Evans was then working off adjusted ship’s time (i.e., 11:45 plus 23 minutes = 12:08 a.m.)
then a number of problems become evident with the timing of Hogg’s account. Hogg left in Boat
No. 7, which was lowered away at about 12:40 a.m. According to his testimony, Evans and he
went on duty ‘at 12 o’clock’. Then they stayed in the nest for ‘about twenty minutes’. Then he
went down to the Boat Deck and began helping to uncover the lifeboats. He was also sent to fetch
a Jacob’s ladder, and had only just returned from that when he was ordered away in Boat No. 7.
If Evans was working from adjusted time when he told Hogg that it was 11:45 p.m., this would
have been 12:08 a.m. unadjusted time; after dressing, it would have taken a few minutes to dress
and make their way to the nest, and they would not have left the nest before 12:30 at the earliest.
Thereafter, it would have taken several minutes at least for Hogg to reach the Boat Deck; yet
Hogg said that when he got to the Boat Deck, he ‘assisted in starting [authors’ emphasis] to
uncover the boats’. This timing simply would not work out.
On the other hand, if Evans was working from adjusted ship’s time, then this would also create
a large gap between the time of the collision (11:40–11:45 by nearly all accounts) and the time that
Hogg returned to talk to Evans. The only plausible explanation is that at 11:45, Evans decided that
since they were already awake, they should go up and relieve Fleet and Lee a few minutes early.
In doing so, perhaps they would even be able to find out some particulars on exactly what had
happened.
Lookouts Fleet and Lee support Hogg’s testimony that he relieved them at midnight. Fleet
testified that Lee and he were up in the Crow’s Nest until being relieved ‘a quarter of an hour to
20 minutes after’ the collision. (Amer. 319) Lee also testified that he was relieved at 12:00 a.m.
(Br. 2454), and that he was below deck when he heard the Boatswain give the order to begin
uncovering the boats. He knew it was about midnight because the off-duty watch had just come
below when this order came down. (Br. 2488a–2493) The testimony of Hogg, Fleet and Lee all
agree closely with each other, and support a 12:40 a.m. launch time for Boat No. 7 – the first
lifeboat lowered.
Br. 11347–11351.
Amer. 1107.
Indiscretions, pgs 167–168; second newspaper account provided by Mike Poirier. Some additional
details, but not quotes, from On Board, Behe, 280–283.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2; supplementary quotations from Amer. 989–998; see also On
Board, Behe, 311–314.
Thayer, 1940.
The Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912.
On Board, Behe, 148–150.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Mrs. Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April
22/23, 1912; Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown; both accounts are contained in On
Board, Behe.)
The Rockford Republic, April 25, 1912.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. This story is a reprint of Shelley’s account that she wrote for
the Powell County Post in Deer Lodge, Montana. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Utica Herald-Dispatch, April 30, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
Amer. 971.
Br. 18515–18519. This conversation with Bell had to have taken place prior to midnight, because
Ismay states that it was before he heard Smith give the order to ‘lower’ or ‘get the boats out’. It
can be established that Captain Smith gave the order to uncover and clear the boats as a
precautionary measure around 12:00 a.m., even before the extent of the damage was known.
It is also possible that Ismay encountered Bell while he was going down the staircase and the
engineer was headed up, and that he turned and came back up the staircase with Bell – so as not
to delay him in getting to the Bridge, perhaps – and then they parted at the top of the stairs.
Although Gracie’s sighting of Ismay with a crewmember is not specific to Bell, his timing seems to
fit very closely with the other details given by Ismay.
Amer. 333.
Indiscretions, 167; second newspaper account provided by Mike Poirier. Some additional details,
but not quotes, from On Board, Behe, 280–283. In her autobiography, Lady Duff Gordon clearly
recalled the engines stopping twice … Once immediately after the collision, and again once she
had completed her brief investigation on deck.
Amer. 657. It is nearly impossible to tell how low Haines went, but he specifically used the word
‘down’.
Amer. 607.
Br. 661a–686.
Br. 1917–1969.
Br. 15266.
Amer. 232.
Amer. 533–534.
The New York Herald, April 19/20, 1912.
James Johnstone’s name has proved a source of consternation for historians. At the British Inquiry,
his name was recorded as James Johnson. On some of the printed crew lists, it is also recorded as
James Johnson. However, on every list where he personally had to sign his name, he signed it
‘Johnstone’, with a ‘t’ and ending with an ‘e’. He did so even on lists where his name was
recorded as ‘Johnson’ on the printed side of the list. (PRO BT 100/259 pgs. 297–298, 398; PRONI
2A/45/381 H.) A thorough examination of UK census records is hampered not only by the
common occurrence of both his first and last names, but also by the lack of a middle name or
initial, varying ages given on all of the crew lists, as well as varying places of birth cited. At this
time, the name is best documented as James Johnstone.
Br. 3363–3366. Johnstone did not know White, but found out who he was afterwards, although he
was not certain in his identity.
Br. 3367–3374. There is some question regarding whether Captain Smith sent for Andrews, asked
him to come to the Bridge, and upon his arrival, asked him to make an inspection below for
damage; whether Andrews proceeded to the Bridge of his own accord; or whether Andrews
started off on his own to go below from his cabin.
The timing and location of Andrews’ appearance in the D Deck Reception Room on the
forward Grand Staircase suggests that it is possible that Andrews went to the Bridge at the
Captain’s request and started below from there. If Andrews had felt the collision and started off
on his own from his cabin, he would most likely have appeared on the staircase sooner; he may
also have used a different route to get to the engine spaces from that location. (One very direct
route would have been down the aft staircase to C Deck, then forward to the Maid’s & Valet’s
Pantry, thence down to E Deck and Scotland Road on E Deck.)
The present authors’ conclusion from the existing evidence is that Andrews proceeded directly
to the Bridge from his cabin, stopping briefly at the forward end of A Deck; we suspect that once
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
Andrews arrived on the Bridge, that Captain Smith asked him to go below and look into the
damage. Once the shipbuilder left the Bridge, it appears that Captain Smith detoured to go to the
Marconi Room, and then he followed Andrews below.
Br. 3400–3401, Br. 3588. Extrapolated from Johnstone’s testimony. It appears that the quotation
that Johnstone remembered from Andrews, namely ‘All right’, was part of a larger reassurance to
the crowd, and that perhaps just that portion of it was directed at Johnstone. Johnstone’s testimony
on this aspect seems a bit incomplete.
Amer. 810–817; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike Poirier); The
Washington Post, April 20, 1912; The Washington Times, April 20, 1912. It should be noted that
Etches’ stretch of testimony at the American Inquiry is quite disjointed. Only by piecing that
account together with his newspaper accounts and the larger overall timeline can one even begin
to understand the timing of his movements.
It seems relatively clear that the Boatswain in question was Alfred Nichols, as Boatswain’s
Mate Haines was concurrently seeing evidence of flooding in the No. 1 Cargo Hold, and
subsequently headed off to the Bridge.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 23, 1912; Stars and Stripes, April 16, 1955. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
Minneapolis World, (date unknown). Courtesy Mike Poirier. Additional details (but not quotes)
can be found in John Snyder’s account of April 24, 1912, in On Board, Behe, 401–402.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Account reproduced in On Board, Behe, 208–209.
The Duluth Herald, May 1, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
On Board, Behe.
Ibid.
Washington Post Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 26, 1912. Full account available On Board,
Behe, 246–254.
Miss Dowdell’s account is compiled from her accounts in The Hudson Dispatch, April 20, 1912;
The Jersey Journal, April 20, 1912; The Hudson Observer, April 20, 1912. The Amy Stanley
portion of the story is compiled from The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912. Full account available in
On Board, Behe, 402–403).
The Irish Sunday Press, June/July 1956, Courtesy of Geoff Whitfield; East Galway Democrat,
May 11, 1912.
New York Times, June 26, 1915. This account draws from Daly’s 1915 testimony in U.S. District
Court as part of the Limitation of Liability hearings.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
August Wennerström’s actual name was August Andersson. A journalist and socialist activist,
he authored a widely-read publication in 1905 criticizing King Oscar II of Sweden. Arrested and
later acquitted, he subsequently decided to emigrate to the United States. He took the
Wennerström name from a similarly-spelled friend’s name, in order to hide his identity. Similarly,
CarlJansson was a socialist activist in Sweden, and emigrated without permission.
Amer. 1041–1042. In Bertha Chambers’ account of April 24, 1912, she did not mention her
husband’s solo trip top-side before returning, collecting her, and heading back up together.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Collett mentioned Captain Smith in
conjunction with this order, but in this particular instance, it does not seem likely that Collett
196.
197.
198.
actually saw Captain Smith. Collett was in the Second Class places, and the Captain was then
between the Bridge and an inspection trip below.
From his accounts, one could initially get the impression that Thayer left his room moments after
the collision. However, he specifically referenced hearing the engines stop, then re-start, and then
stop again. This presents two possibilities: that he was hearing the engines slip into reverse for a
few throbs, and then stop, and that he left his room before Captain Smith re-started the engines
briefly. The other possibility – one backed up by his hearing a number of people turn out onto the
deck while he was still in his cabin – is that he stayed in his room through the Captain’s brief
attempt to move the ship forward between about 11:43 and 11:46 p.m. The latter seems more likely
as it fits better with other passengers who said that there was a period of silence after the engines
stopped; it also allows time for him to have heard people moving about while he was still in his
cabin.
A word on Thayer’s deck designations is also in order. He consistently seems to have been
suffering from the sort of ‘deck letter confusion’ that many other passengers suffered from that
night. In his account, he said that on this trip, he went up to ‘“A” deck on the port side’. This could
easily refer to the Promenade Deck. However, he also remembered being in the ‘hallway or
lounge’ with his father there, where he saw Ismay, Andrews, and some of the ship’s officers pass.
He said that his family next hurried to the ‘lounge on “A” deck, which was then crowded with
people, some standing, some hurrying, some pushing out onto the deck’. His later references to B
Deck would actually indicate to a thorough student of the ship’s design that the first location was
the Boat Deck, and the second the Promenade Deck.
For example: Why would his parents have descended to Titanic’s B Deck in the hopes of
getting off in a lifeboat…? How could he have been in the Lounge on the Promenade Deck and
seen Ismay, Andrews and officers hurrying by…? How could passengers have been hurrying out
onto the deck directly from the Lounge on the Promenade Deck, as his wording indicates…? His
use of the term ‘hallway or lounge’ is a key to understanding his use of the terminology. Cunarders
like Lusitania and Mauretania had their Boat Decks labeled ‘A’ Deck, their Promenade Decks
labeled ‘B’ Deck, and so on. Very likely, Jack – a seasoned traveler – was simply mislabeling the
deck letters. So in his accounts, a reference to A Deck could be read ‘Boat Deck’, B Deck could
be read ‘Promenade Deck’, and the ‘lounge’ could probably be translated into the First Class
Entrance at the top of the Grand Staircase.
At the same time, he recalled correctly in both 1912 and 1940 that their rooms were on the port
side of C Deck; if he did have his deck designations confused, it may have been inconsistent or his
reference to C Deck could be the only correct designation that he gave.
If it is correct that Jack Thayer had his deck letters confused, and this confusion was consistent,
then he may have first arrived on the Boat Deck, and then descended to A Deck and walked
forward to the rail; there was no passenger access to the forward edge of the Boat Deck by the
Bridge to overlook the forward Well Deck. Thayer does seem to separate the locations, but gives
no sense of vertical orientation in the statement.
April 20, 1912 account by Jack Thayer, George Behe collection. Account available in On Board,
Behe, 412–414; also Thayer, 1940. In his 1940 account, Thayer said that his father joined him on
deck; in his 1912 account, he said that he returned to his stateroom and that both of his parents
came out on the deck with him. In his 1940 account, he spoke only of being with his father there,
and said that they subsequently returned to their cabin and found his mother and her maid dressed.
How can all of this be reconciled?
Not easily. Earliest accounts are usually the best ones to trust, before a passenger has had time
to over-analyze and perhaps distort perceptions, actions, and movements. Yet both of Thayer’s
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
accounts are equally believable. It’s impossible to say with certainty how his night played out, only
to reconstruct a most likely sequence.
Most likely, Jack’s recollection of returning to his stateroom is correct and that both of his
parents did go up on deck; his mother was still awake at the time of the collision. Perhaps his
mother returned to her room – because of the cold and after realizing that the ship was damaged in
some manner; while she began to dress, Jack and John stayed on the deck, finding further
information; then when the men returned to their rooms, they found his mother and her maid nearly
dressed, Jack dressed fully, and they all then went out on deck together. This, however, would
merely seem to be the simplest way of reconciling all the different details without claiming that his
recollection was mistaken. … It is more likely that Jack omitted a detail about his mother returning
to her cabin than to believe his very good 1912 account is completely mistaken on the point.
If young Jack Thayer’s deck letter recollections were mistaken, then Thayer could easily have
been the young lad that Gracie spotted on the port side of the Boat Deck. Gracie knew John
Thayer, Jack’s father, but would he immediately have recognized Jack on the deck in that moment?
Probably, since in his book, he mentions recognizing Jack Thayer during the rescue. ... While
conjecture, the idea is intriguing, as it would seem that the pair were on the same deck at just about
the same time. Yet it could also have been any of the other young men in First Class, as well.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2; supplementary quotations from Amer. 989–998; see also On
Board, Behe, 311–314. Only Gracie’s account in The Truth About the Titanic mentions his trip aft
along the Boat Deck. However, it does not conflict with his other accounts, and is thus considered
supplementary rather than contradictory.
Amer. 232.
Br. 15371–15377.
The New York Herald, April 19, 1912; The New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
Br. 3377–3396; Br. 10696–10697. Mackay’s estimate of this sighting transpiring 20 minutes after
the collision seems to be too long, in light of the established times of other, related events.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
Br. 1957–1961.
Br. 3986–4016. Greaser Frederick Scott also claimed that he felt the collision, before he heard
telegraph bells and saw the ‘Stop’ order for the main engines. (Br. 5513–5546) Scott’s account is
questionable, though, because by his own admission, he was in the Turbine Engine Room when the
collision came and the watertight doors closed. The telegraphs on which he claimed to have seen
the orders given were located at the forward end of the Reciprocating Engine Room, on the
Starting Platform. The watertight door between the Turbine Engine Room and this location was
closed, so there is no way Scott could have seen the ‘Stop’ orders on the telegraph as claimed. A
number of other details from Scott’s testimony are questionable. For example, he claimed that the
orders on the telegraph he couldn’t see following the collision were: ‘Stop’ for 10–15 minutes,
‘Slow Ahead’ for 10 minutes, followed by ‘Stop’ again for 4–5 minutes, ‘Slow Astern’ for 5
minutes, and finally ‘Stop’. (Br. 5624–5626) Not a single other witness supports this sequence of
events, and by his own timeline, this would mean that Titanic’s engines continued to operate onand-off until sometime between 12:09 a.m. and 12:15 a.m., which is patently absurd. For these and
other reasons, Scott’s testimony relating to the telegraph orders has been discounted.
Amer. 657.
American Medicine, May 1912. ‘My Experience in the Wreck of the Titanic’, by Henry
Frauenthal. Account available online at:
http://www.archive.org/stream/americanmedicine18newyuoft/americanmedicine18newyuoft_djvu.t
xt.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Apparently, this was not yet an official order; however, the precise timing of the event was not
given by Mrs Chaffee in her account, and there is some room for interpretation.
Evening Tribune, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Indiscretions, 167; second newspaper account provided by Mike Poirier. Some additional details,
but not quotes, from On Board, Behe, 280–283.
The Syracuse Herald, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. There seem to be some gaps in
Badman’s account, as she does not mention dressing at all after the collision. She also did not
mention what her cabin-mates did in the first few minutes.
However, we do know that Third Class passengers moved up from their forward sections, and
then aft along Scotland Road, when they were chased out by rising water. Her sighting of at least
part of this group moving up and aft means that flooding had already occurred there, causing the
mass exodus, which helps us to fix the approximate time. When she said that she went to one of
the ‘upper decks’, this could refer to the forward General Room on D Deck, or even to the open
Well Deck just above – she did not specify whether it was inside or outside. In either case, it
would not have taken her long to go back to her cabin.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
In both accounts, Thayer said that the ship was first listing to starboard, and then listing to port.
However, there is a good deal of evidence that the ship was actually listing only to starboard at that
point. Some time later, the ship did list over to port, and it is possible that Thayer was confused on
the timing when he gave his accounts.
April 20, 1912 account by Jack Thayer, George Behe collection. Account in On Board, Behe,
412–414; also Thayer, 1940.
Br. 18517–18518; On Board, Behe, 334.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2; supplementary quotations from Amer. 989–998; see also On
Board, Behe 311–314. There are plenty of photos of Ismay wearing a hat when ashore. However,
it seems that it was his custom not to wear one while he was at sea.
Beesley, Ch. 3; The Toronto World, April 19, 1912 (On Board, Behe, 157–162). In his book,
Beesley recalled that the ship was still moving ahead slowly when he reached the Boat Deck; in
his other account, however, Beesley said that the engines had already stopped before he headed
up, causing the consternation of those in the passageways. It is difficult to say just how long the
ship drifted forward after Captain Smith stopped the engines, but this goes to show that relying on
a single account from a survivor rather than multiple accounts (where available) can lead to mistimings of events.
Br. 11352–11354.
Br. 11352–11416.
Br. 3377–3396; Br. 10696–10697. Mackay’s estimate of this sighting transpiring 20 minutes after
the collision seems to be too long, in light of the established times of other, related events.
Br. 3397–3399; Br. 10893–10901. This entire stretch of the story is pieced together from the
testimony of both Johnstone and Wheat. Whereas Wheat thought it was about 10–15 minutes after
the collision, Johnstone thought it was about 25; based on the overall timeline of events that had
transpired up to that point, it would seem that Wheat’s estimate was the more accurate one.
Chicago Evening Post, April 23, 1912. See On Board, Behe, 344.
On Board, Behe, 148–150.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier; additional details also supplied by
Mike Poirier.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912; Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown; both accounts are contained in On Board,
Behe.
Amer. 534.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 264–277.
Although the three spaces were within the same watertight compartment, the Squash Racquet
Court player’s area on G Deck was only accessible by a single staircase from the Spectator’s
Court above on F Deck. It was partitioned off from the Post Office on its starboard side, as well
as the First Class Baggage Room and No. 3 hatch.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 23, 1912; Stars and Stripes, April 16, 1955. Courtesy Mike
Poirier. In his 1912 account, Nourney mentioned three feet of water, in his 1955 account, he
mentioned six feet of water.
On Board, Behe; also deposition of George Rheims given in U.S. District Court during the
Limitation of Liability hearings, November 14, 1913. In his early account, Rheims said that the
information came through a quarter-hour after the shock, and that shortly afterward – an
unspecified amount of time – he met Loring. In his early account, Rheims placed the collision at
11:00 p.m. and the order to put on lifebelts at 11:30, some 30 minutes after the collision (or 12:10
a.m., if one accounts for the 40-minute discrepancy in Rheims’ timing of the collision). In 1913,
however, Rheims said he went out on the deck 10–15 minutes after the shock, and that it was
‘about 25 minutes’ after the collision that he went to the Boat Deck. Only after that (and
comparing his testimony to his original account allows for quite some gap of time) did he see the
first boat was lowered.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 1042; April 24, 1912 account (unknown paper) provided by Mike Poirier.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 634–635; Br. 10697–10700; Br. 2488a–2493; Br. 13800. The general timing of when the ‘all
hands’ order was given can be fixed to within a few minutes of midnight by several lines of
evidence. Able Bodied Seaman Frederick Clench testified that following the collision, he went
under the Forecastle Head, where he looked under the hatchway, saw the tarpaulin bulging up, and
heard water rushing in. He believed this was sometime around 11:50 p.m. Clench had time to
return to his quarters, change, and have a smoke before all hands were called to the Boat Deck.
This suggests that the order was given very close to midnight.
Lookout Reginald Lee testified that the order for the crewmembers to turn out and get the
boats ready for turning out was given just after 12:00 a.m. He said that he knew this, because the
off-duty watch had just gone below when the order came down.
Steward Mackay testified that the ‘all hands’ order came down very shortly after he saw
Captain Smith heading back on deck from his first trip below, which would also place this order
around 12:00 a.m. Several other lines of evidence confirm that Smith was back on the Bridge from
his initial trip below around midnight, that he ordered the lifeboats uncovered at that time, and also
ordered Boxhall to wake the off-duty officers. Second Officer Lightoller testified that Chief
Officer Wilde told him that ‘all hands’ had already been called when he came out on deck after
being roused around midnight. (See Endnote 246 below for further details on the timing of
Boxhall’s trip to wake the officers.) It is important to note that the ‘all hands’ order probably took a
242.
243.
244.
245.
246.
247.
248.
249.
250.
251.
252.
253.
254.
255.
few minutes to filter down to all of the crewmembers below decks, so precisely when various
crewmembers received the order likely depended on their location.
Br. 18519. The Berkshire Evening Eagle, April 22, 1912. Full Account contained in On Board,
Behe 332–335.
Amer. 233; Br. 15379–15380; Br. 15584–15588. In the Senate inquiry, Boxhall said that Smith’s
reply to his news was ‘All right’, while in the British Inquiry, he claimed that Smith said nothing
that was fixed in his memory. Boxhall clearly remembered at the Senate Inquiry that right after he
returned from his inspection below, the Captain gave the order to uncover and clear the boats.
Amer. 604. Buley was referring to Murdoch according to his original ranking of ‘Chief Officer’,
but it seems clear that he was definitely referring to Murdoch, as he used his name. He also
referred to this same ‘Chief Officer Murdoch’ as working on Boat No. 10 later in the night.
Amer. 536.
Br. 15378–15379; Br. 13781–13785; BI 14949. Lightoller gave estimates of between 15 and 30
minutes after the collision for when Boxhall woke him. Pitman testified that it was 20 minutes after
the collision, in agreement with these estimates; he also confirmed that when he went out on deck,
the crew had already been called out, and were beginning to uncover the lifeboats. (Br. 14951–
14952) Lowe must have fallen back asleep after Boxhall roused him, as he testified that the first
he knew of the accident was when he was awakened by voices around his cabin, and found there
were passengers wearing lifebelts on deck.
The New York Herald, April 19, 1912; The New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Indiscretions, pg. 168.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In this story, Helen Ostby
seems to have recalled that she saw the Captain coming down the stairs when they were on their
way up after putting on their lifebelts. However, that would have been too late for the Captain to
have been on his way below for a damage inspection. More likely, she spotted Smith on the stairs
at this point, and simply recalled it later in her account because she mentioned that they were going
up that same staircase.
Amer. 1109.
The Coshocton Tribune, April 19, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In the original quotation, the name
is spelled Freulichen. The family name was spelled that way consistently throughout the article;
however, there is great evidence that the name was spelled Frölicher, at least in 1912. As such, the
current authors have altered the quotation to reflect the apparent proper name that this Swiss
banker would have used to address her. It is conceivable that there is another explanation, but most
likely the name was simply misspelled in the original article.
Br. 2001–2036.
It is important to remember that Olympic and Titanic differed in their internal structure in the
vicinity of the Turkish Baths, both in the layout of the baths and in the entry to them. In 2005, when
James Cameron led an expedition into the Turkish Baths, they were able to use the non-watertight
door leading directly from the stairs into the Baths to gain access to the Cooling Room, which they
found to be in a fantastic state of preservation. Wheat’s actions would not have cut off access to
anyone in the Turkish Baths at the time.
Br. 10920–10941. Wheat does not say how long this process took. He apparently quit watching the
Mail Room flood at about 11:55 (ascertained from the water level he described when he left). It
must have been about 12:00 a.m. that he began to close these watertight doors, and this effort in
total probably took a few minutes. The next event he described, running into Purser McElroy on
the stairs between C and D Decks, seems to have occurred at approximately 12:15 a.m.
256.
257.
258.
259.
260.
261.
262.
263.
264.
265.
266.
267.
268.
269.
270.
271.
272.
Amer. 577–578; Amer. 317, 319. Fred Fleet was very clear in his testimony that when they came
on watch at 10:00 p.m., they were to have a watch of ‘about 2 hours and 20 minutes’ (actually 2
hours and 23 minutes, with the setback planned for just before 12:00 a.m.). The conclusion of this
watch would have been at 12:23 a.m. unadjusted ship’s time. However, he also stated that he was
relieved by Hogg and Evans about ‘a quarter of an hour to 20 minutes after … the accident’.
Hogg and Evans also believed that they arrived in the Crow’s Nest ‘at 12 o’clock’. (Amer. 578.)
Br. 11352–11416; Br. 2473–2493/2514–2520.
Amer. 810–817; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike Poirier); The
Washington Post, April 20, 1912; The Washington Times, April 20, 1912.
Amer. 596.
Br. 13789–13791.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Amer. 71.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Washington Post Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 26, 1912. Full account available in On Board,
Behe, 246–254.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike
Poirier).
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2; supplementary quotations from Amer. 989–998; see also On
Board, Behe, 311–314. In all of his accounts of the disaster, Gracie was remarkably specific that
his watch read 12:00 midnight when the collision occurred and when the ship began blowing off
steam. However, from many, many other lines of evidence, it is clear that the collision happened at
11:40 (some accounts say as late as 11:43, but this is still close enough to 11:40 to prove the ship’s
clocks had not been adjusted by the time of the collision). Gracie admitted in one account that he
had not adjusted his watch since before midnight the previous night, so it is possible that it was not
well-adjusted to ship’s time even though it read midnight. Gracie himself seemed to allow for this
possibility. In his book, Gracie said that he felt that correct ship’s time would then have been ‘about
11.45’.
Amer. 275–276; Br. 14930–14948.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 23, 1912; Stars and Stripes, April 16, 1955. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
The Hartford Times, April 19, 1912. Account available in On Board, Behe, 174–177.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Although there is no
specific time recorded for this conversation, the time when the Squash Racquet Court was flooding
is known; it would have required a minimum of 3–5 minutes for this information to get up to the
Doctor, and for him to then rejoin the Hoyts and pass the news on to Frederick. It is also worth
noting that the report did not specify just how full the Court was at the time the observance was
made. However, it seems clear that the Doctor had told the Hoyts that he was unsure of how bad
the damage was, left them, found out that the Racquet Court was flooding, and then subsequently
rejoined them, when he passed this new information on. Mrs Hoyt does not help us to pin down the
timing of their movements any further, but the overall picture is that they waited for a number of
minutes before returning to their stateroom.
Amer. 333.
April 20, 1912 account by Jack Thayer. George Behe collection. Account in full available in On
Board, Behe 412–414; also Thayer, 1940. Here we come across another apparent discrepancy in
Thayer’s two accounts. In 1912, he said that after noticing the list increasing, his family decided to
return to their rooms to dress. In 1940, Jack said that he and his father alone were on deck until
273.
274.
275.
276.
277.
278.
279.
280.
281.
282.
12:15, when they heard the order for lifebelts, and that upon returning to their rooms, they found
Mrs Thayer fully dressed.
The most likely way of explaining the discrepancies is that Mrs Thayer went up with her
husband and son at first, and she then decided to go back below to dress; after waiting a few more
minutes, the father and son team heard the order to don lifebelts, and they followed after her,
where they found that she and her maid were fully dressed.
Interestingly, Jack Thayer never specifically mentioned seeing Captain Smith pass by, while a
number of others clearly spotted him several times.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
There are interesting disparities, as well as interesting parallels, between Henry and Isaac’s
accounts. Isaac clearly remembered two trips to his brother’s stateroom. In the first, he did not say
that his brother came to the door, but rather that he had refused to get up. After this, Isaac said
that he had gone up on deck, where he heard the conversation between Captain Smith and Colonel
Astor. Then he returned to his brother’s cabin, finally getting him up.
According to Henry, Isaac made only one visit, at ‘about twelve o’clock’, and he got up during
that visit. Shortly after they got on deck, the first boat was being lowered. Isaac recalled that when
they got on deck, the stewards were having trouble getting passengers on deck, and that shortly
thereafter the first boat was sent away. What is one to take from this?
It seems that Henry remembered only the second visit, and that when Isaac woke them up at
‘about twelve o’clock’, it was actually just after midnight. Clearly, Captain Smith had left the
Bridge at about midnight, and Frauenthal apparently encountered him on deck just as he was
leaving. This would place Isaac Frauenthal’s second visit to Henry’s cabin just a few minutes after
midnight, or at ‘about twelve o’clock’.
It would seem that Dr Henry Frauenthal left his cabin after this warning, somewhere around 12:10
a.m. (American Medicine, May 1912; ‘My Experience in the Wreck of the Titanic’, by Henry
Frauenthal. Account available online at:
http://www.archive.org/stream/americanmedicine18newyuoft/americanmedicine18newyuoft_djvu.t
xt.)
Chicago Evening Post, April 23, 1912. See On Board, Behe, 344.
Ibid.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Account reproduced in On Board, Behe, 208–209.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In this portion of her account,
Mrs Swift did not specify what got her back up out of bed. The current authors suspect that it was
the voice which Emma Bucknell heard calling out as the man passed, saying that ‘everyone should
dress immediately and go on deck’, but that is only one possibility. It also seems very likely that this
voice came from Edwin Kimball, who had been told by the Mail Clerk who was ‘wet to the knees’
that he should ‘advise women to dress, as they might have to go on deck’. Kimball said he
informed a number of people, including ‘a number of women who were traveling alone’ that they
needed to get dressed and up on deck.
This seems to have been Edwin Kimball, whose cabin was right nearby.
These two women may have been none other than Mrs Margaret Swift and her companion Dr
Alice Leader, as they shared the same side-passageway. How could this be the case? In Mrs
Swift’s account, it is possible that the use of the male pronoun ‘his’ in ‘his hand’ was a misquote
on the reporter’s part, and that the two ladies learned their information from Mrs Bucknell in the
hallway first. More likely, they did have a male visitor – possibly even Frederick Kenyon, their
traveling companion – but he first talked to only to Mrs Swift at the door. In this scenario, Mrs
Swift would have been the woman seen by Mrs Bucknell trying to convince Dr Leader that it
283.
284.
285.
286.
287.
288.
289.
290.
291.
292.
293.
294.
really was an iceberg. As far as the age, Mrs Bucknell said that the two ladies were young
women. Mrs Bucknell was about 60 at the time, while Mrs Swift and Dr Leader were 46 and 49
respectively. The accounts line up so closely that it would be very difficult not to see a connection
between them. However, it is merely a theory at this point.
The portion about the valuables comes from The Detroit Free Press, April 21, 1912; courtesy
Mike Poirier. The remainder of this portion of her story comes from an account provided by Mike
Poirier.
Amer. 1042; April 24, 1912 account by Mrs Chambers (newspaper unknown), account provided by
Mike Poirier.
Amer. 276; Br. 14954–14957.
Br. 13800–13804.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Beesley, Ch. 3; The Toronto World, April 19, 1912. On Board, Behe, 157–162.
The Ilford Graphic, May 10, 1912. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 323–328.
Utica Herald-Dispatch, April 30, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Awake! October 22, 1981, pgs 3–7.
In his account – which was apparently given a single time and reprinted in various newspapers as
it came through the wires, with certain snatches missing from some of them – Theissinger said: ‘I
was detailed to C deck and when we started over I had charge of staterooms occupied by some of
the most noted people on board.’ He listed his charges: Mr and Mrs Straus, Benjamin Guggenheim,
Howard Case, H. F. Julian, the Taussig family, and Arthur Gee. He gave Gee’s stateroom number
as ‘No. 63’, and the Taussigs’ as ‘67 and 68’. He gave the Strauses’ room number as ‘No. 50’. So
far so good (According to research by Daniel Klistorner, Gee later switched to E-66).
The trouble is that Guggenheim was in B-84, and was under the care of Henry Etches. Etches
woke Guggenheim up, even though Theissinger claimed to. There is some evidence that Madame
Aubart and Emma Sägesser took an initial trip to Guggenheim’s cabin shortly after the collision,
and made contact with Victor Giglio; it this is accurate, it may explain why Etches found
Guggenheim so wide-awake when he knocked on his cabin door. Additionally, the Strauses were
listed as being in C-55–57. Meanwhile, Julian, the Taussigs, and Gee were on E Deck (E-60/E-67
and E-68/and E-66, respectively). Did Theissinger really tell the reporter that he had a section on
‘E Deck’, and the reporter heard or miswrote it as ‘C Deck’? Did he really rush to the staterooms
of Guggenheim and the Strauses? Is it possible that he had night duty on B or C Deck, and thus
had become acquainted with them, so that he rushed to their rooms in addition to his main section
on E Deck? Or was Theissinger merely ‘overinflating’ the importance of the passengers in his
care and of his actions that night? It is difficult to say where the truth lies. Admittedly, his story of
waking the Strauses seems more likely than his story about waking up Benjamin Guggenheim.
Why? Because he specifically mentions being at the Purser’s Office at one point, and the Strauses
cabin was directly next-door to the Purser’s Office, just next to the First Class Entrance. Based on
his known movements, then, his story about the Strauses is at least possible. Thus, the current
authors will include the Straus portion of his account in the narrative in the order he suggests; the
current authors will leave out the Guggenheim portion because there seems to be evidence against
it. However, it should be remembered that it is possible that he did go to Guggenheim’s cabin
between the time Etches made his first and second calls to that cabin.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
Indiscretions, 167; second newspaper account provided by Mike Poirier. Some additional details,
but not quotes, from On Board, Behe, 280–283.
295.
296.
297.
298.
299.
300.
301.
302.
303.
304.
305.
306.
307.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912; Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown; both accounts are contained in On Board,
Behe.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In her account, Mrs Swift
added that he also said that they should ‘get into the boats’. However, this is not what Mrs
Bucknell and her maid were told at about the same time. It is possible that the ‘officer’ said
something about the boats, or getting into the boats, but it would seem a little early for that here.
The other possibility is that Mrs Swift and Dr Leader were delayed more than Emma Bucknell and
her maid. Mrs Bucknell, when she left her cabin, stayed for quite a while on the deck before
boarding No. 8. Mrs Leader may have left some of that detail out of her account.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Newport Herald, May 28, 29, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe, 217–226.
Amer. 1109.
Br. 13277–13283; Bullock, 1912. Bullock attributes the ‘three have gone already’ quote to an
unnamed stewardess, but from the details given, and comparing this account with her inquiry
testimony, it is clear that the witness in question was Annie Robinson. Robinson places her sighting
‘about half-an-hour’ after the collision, or at approximately 12:10 a.m.
Amer. 1042. First Class Passenger Norman Chambers looked in on the group of ‘officers’
conducting the inspection as they observed the Mail Room; he overheard the remark that the ship
was ‘not making any more water’. The initial flooding rate was quite fast; however, the rate at
which the water rose would have seemed to decelerate as the water inside the ship equalized with
the outside waterline.
There is also evidence that Captain Smith and Thomas Andrews came across Chief Engineer
Bell while they were below; if this is the case, Bell doubtless would have informed them of some
flooding in Boiler Room No. 6, as well… however, the electric lights had been out in the stokeholds
previously, which may have impeded the inspection of damage, and the damage control efforts
themselves. It thus seems possible that when Smith headed backup, the full extent of the flooding
in No. 6 was not known.
All in all, it seems that whatever he had seen and personally witnessed while below, when
Captain Smith turned to head topside, he apparently thought the situation was serious, but coming
under control.
Br. 10696.
Newburgh Daily News, April 26, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The exact phraseology used by Ray needs some clarification. There were many ‘Saloon
Stewards’ on the Titanic, and Ray was one of them. However, Ray used the word ‘the’ before
the term ‘saloon steward’. This would indicate that in this instance, he was using the word ‘saloon’
to refer to First Dining Saloon Steward William Moss – who was sighted nearby at around the
same time by William Ward.
Amer. 802.
Amer. 596.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. It would seem likely that Ray
and Nichols were called out by Dodd within just a couple of minutes of each other. When Ray
gave his estimation of the time that he was awakened, he said: ‘As near as I could make out, it
was about 20 minutes [after the collision.] It was around about 12 o’clock.’ However, he was
sleeping at the time and apparently had little point of reference; Nichols thought that when Dodd
came through their quarters, it had been ‘I should say three-quarters of an hour’ after the collision.
It is likely that if both men were referring to Dodd, then Nichols’ would be the more reliable
estimate, as he was up and fully oriented about what was happening, not just getting up from a
308.
309.
310.
311.
groggy sleep. However, it seems likely that both timings were just that: estimates. They should not
be relied upon too closely against other evidence. Indeed, Nichols’ account does bear some other
inconsistencies, so perhaps the best thing to do is to compare the accounts of Ray and Nichols and
to average the estimates out, and then to place them in a timeline based on more solid and reliable
estimates.
There is good evidence, for example, that Captain Smith – while on the Bridge – had given a
preliminary order to call out all hands at midnight; it seems likely that it would have taken a few
minutes for the order to filter down to E Deck, particularly as Dodd would have been stopping at
each room to awaken the stewards.
Titanic Survivor, Ch. 21. In her memoirs, Jessop did not name the group of men, but she later
gave author John Maxtone-Graham their identities. She also did not give the exact time, but she did
give a sequence of events to work from: she saw men working at the boats, then came back
inside, saw a rather relaxed Captain Smith, and then saw the members of the orchestra on their
way to play. The evidence indicates that this segment of her recollections was quite early in the
event, probably around 12:15–12:20 a.m. This seems to confirm other evidence that at that time,
Captain Smith felt that the damage was not as serious as first indications might have suggested.
Amer. 971; the Wideners were in cabin C-82. If it was the Wideners, then they would not have
been returning to their rooms if they were headed up the stairs at the Promenade Deck.
Amer. 276; Br. 14954–14969. It would seem that this expedition by Pitman took a period of time.
Remember that he encountered Moody on the port-side aft quarter of the Boat Deck, apparently
at about 12:05 a.m. He did not specify precisely where Moody was when they met up, but Beesley
saw Moody working on Boat No. 16 at about 12:05, so the Sixth Officer may have been all the
way aft on the deck.
Pitman then would have needed to walk forward on the Boat Deck and descend to the forward
Well Deck, perhaps by means of the emergency staircase on the port side of the Bridge. Once
there, he said that he went ‘to the forecastle head’, but could see no sign of danger. On his return,
‘before emerging from under the forecastle head’, he saw the stokers coming up. Then he went to
the No. 1 hatch and saw the flooding. After this, he returned to the Boat Deck, and made for Boat
No. 5.
Pitman’s round-trip after he left Moody thus conservatively involved a walk forward of
approximately 400 feet (give or take, depending on precisely where Moody was when they talked),
and a descent of three decks; on the return, Pitman needed to move aft from the No. 1 hatch to
Boat No. 5 on the starboard side, a fore-aft distance of about 125 feet, and have climbed from C
Deck back to the Boat Deck. Pitman also encountered some crew members, and thus time needs
to be allowed for his conversation with them. All told, it seems that Pitman would not have arrived
back at Boat No. 5 until about 12:20 – which is precisely his estimate of when he returned and
began to work on that lifeboat. (Br. 14992) and the timing of work at No. 5 would seem to be
supported by other evidence.
Br. 1041–1043; Hichens stated that this order came down sometime after midnight. Since Hichens
stated he was at the helm until 12:23 a.m., this means the order to swing out the boats and begin
getting the passengers on deck was given sometime between 12:00 and 12:23 a.m. Imanita Shelley
testified that the order to begin getting the passengers up on deck was given about three-quarters
of an hour after the collision, or 12:25 a.m. (Amer. 1147) Steward Joseph Wheat was more
specific, stating that the stewards were ordered to get lifebelts on the passengers, and get them on
deck by Chief Purser McElroy around 12:15 a.m. (Br. 13229) After the order was given by Smith,
it would have taken a few minutes to filter down to all the crewmembers in different parts of the
ship.
312.
313.
314.
315.
316.
317.
318.
319.
320.
There are two possible times Captain Smith could have worked up his initial dead reckoning (DR)
position. The first opportunity would have been while Boxhall was below on his second inspection
after 11:50 p.m., and after the Carpenter and mail clerk had made their respective reports to Smith.
It would only have taken Smith a few minutes to have done this. The second option is that it was
after Captain Smith had arrived back on the Bridge from his second trip below around 12:12 a.m.,
and after Smith went to the Marconi operators at 12:15 a.m., telling them to be prepared to
transmit a call for distress, but before 12:25 a.m., when Andrews told him the ship was sinking.
Understandably, there is a shortage of direct eyewitness testimony on the matter; clearly Smith’s
DR position was worked out by the time the first distress call was sent, and that Boxhall’s refined
second DR position went to the wireless operators about 10 minutes after the first call went out.
The present authors feel it is probable that Captain Smith made his DR estimate after arriving on
deck following his own inspection below decks, having dicovered that the ship was substantially
damaged, but before Thomas Andrews discovered the ship was doomed; however, the evidence
could be interpreted either way.
The New York Times, April 19, 1912. Harold Bride said that Smith came back approximately 10
minutes later, telling the men to begin sending CQD A 12:15 a.m. time for Smith having first
visiting the Marconi room to tell them to prepare to send a distress call is in line with Bride’s
estimate of him returning 10 minutes later at 12:25 a.m. with the order to begin sending the distress
call. The first distress call was received at 10:25 p.m. New York Time, as it was picked up and
recorded at the Cape Race station. Since how far ahead of New York time the Titanic’s clocks
were has been established – namely, 2 hours and 2 minutes – it can be extrapolated that the first
distress call was sent at about 12:27 a.m. Titanic time. This is in keeping with Smith initially visiting
the Marconi room at 12:15 a.m., and with Bride’s timeline of events.
Conclusive evidence regarding the 2 hour and 2 minute time difference, which was first noted
by researcher Leslie Harrison, is detailed in the article ‘Time and Time Again’, by researcher Sam
Halpern. This article is available at the following URL:
http://www.titanicology.com/Californian/TimeandTimeAgain.pdf.
Amer. 333.
Amer. 971.
On Board, Behe, 148–150.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Account reproduced in On Board, Behe, 208–209.
The Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Additional later accounts also
provided by NMM/Mike Poirier Collection. Her identification of Purser McElroy comes from
these later accounts, but the identification does not contradict the statement from her 1912
account; rather, this information is considered supplementary.
Br. 10942–10952.
There are certain inconsistencies in the different accounts of Marian and Jack Thayer. Jack
mentioned, in his 1940 account, that at 12:15 a.m. the stewards passed word for everyone to go
below and dress in warm clothing, and to put their lifebelts on. Marian Thayer said that as they
finished dressing and left their rooms, she saw Major Butt in the hallway outside, but placed that
sighting at ‘about 12:10’, – five minutes before Jack said they started down to get dressed and put
on their lifebelts. Thayer also said that he and his father encountered Thomas Andrews, who told
them that the ship didn’t have more than an hour to live – however, the placement indicates that
this occurred before the order for passengers to dress and don their lifebelts … which simply
doesn’t make sense.
Most likely, Jack and John Thayer remained on deck until word came down at about 12:15 a.m.
for passengers to don their lifebelts, or perhaps even later than this – otherwise, why would they all
have put on their lifebelts during this expedition to their cabins? It seems that they were in their
321.
322.
323.
324.
325.
326.
327.
328.
329.
330.
331.
332.
333.
334.
335.
staterooms for some time preparing, for Marian saw Colonel Butt as they left, perhaps as late as
12:45 a.m. (Witnesses placed Butt in the Smoking Room during the early stages of the sinking, and
Saloon Steward Ray saw Moore and the group he had been sitting with, including Butt, exit the
Smoking Room, prior to the lowering away of Boat No. 7. That boat left the deck at 12:40 a.m.
Given the timing, Marian’s sighting likely came after Butt left the Smoking Room.) The Thayers
likely came across Andrews sometime after he had broken the bad news to Captain Smith, which
was around 12:25 a.m. Alternatively, they may have encountered Andrews as they headed up to
the Lounge since they were there at about the time that Andrews came up from his inspection. It
is simply impossible to say with certainty exactly what order things happened in for the Thayer
family, and the current authors have simply placed their amalgamated story in the most likely
sequence and timing. Some variations should be allowed for.
The Hartford Times, April 19, 1912. Account available in On Board, Behe, 174–177.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In this account, Mrs Swift
indicates that the officer went away and came back shortly thereafter with the order to go up on
deck and get into the lifeboats. This would have placed their arrival on deck after that of Mrs
Bucknell and her maid, who did not hear this order and left independently before that point. Mrs
Bucknell also remembered being on the deck for quite some time, while Mrs Swift says nothing
about being on deck for a long time.
Chicago Evening Post, April 23, 1912. See On Board, Behe, 344.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Account reproduced in On Board, Behe, 208–209.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave: Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912; Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown; both accounts are contained in On Board,
Behe.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2.
American Medicine, May 1912. ‘My Experience in the Wreck of the Titanic’, by Henry
Frauenthal. Account available online at:
http://www.archive.org/stream/americanmedicine18newyuoft/americanmedicine18newyuoft_djvu.t
xt.
The Coshocton Tribune, April 19, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Minneapolis World, (date unknown). Courtesy Mike Poirier. Additional details (but not quotes) in
John Snyder’s account of April 24, 1912, in On Board, Behe, 401–402.
The Daily Mirror, May 13, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
There were two stewards named Stone: Edward Thomas Stone and Edmond J. Stone. Neither
man survived, and Etches did not specify which of the two the steward he spoke to was.
Amer. 810–817; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike Poirier); The
Washington Post, April 20, 1912; The Washington Times, April 20, 1912. This portion of Etches’
account is important, as it seems to indicate that he had no access to the correct time by means of
a personal time-piece at that point. This likely means that his subsequent timing of events are
simply estimates, and should not be relied upon in building a timeline.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In this account, Mock thought the
order came down at 12:05 a.m., but it seems that this order was actually passed about ten minutes
later than that.
The Washington Roebling on board the Titanic was Washington Roebling II, aged 31. He was the
grandson of John Roebling, who had begun the Brooklyn Bridge. John Roebling’s son Washington
had finished the project despite serious health issues. John Roebling’s other son, Charles G.
Roebling, was the father of the Titanic passenger Washington Roebling II. The young man was
named in honor of his uncle, the man who completed the Brooklyn Bridge.
Pageant, October 1953. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
336.
337.
338.
339.
340.
341.
342.
343.
344.
345.
346.
347.
348.
349.
350.
351.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 23, 1912; Stars and Stripes, April 16, 1955. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
The Duluth Herald, May 1, 1912; The Duluth News Tribune, May 2, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 1042.
The Rockford Republic, April 25, 1912. Bryhl’s story is rather difficult to piece together. When
her fiancé returned, it was obvious that he had heard no order to go to the lifeboats. The order to
load the boats came immediately after Captain Smith learned the ship was sinking; it is most likely
that Enander was working on a hunch, and had heard nothing official about the ship being in a
sinking condition.
Dagmar also remembered that Enander’s second visit had not been long after his first.
However, according to this account, when they reached the deck the lifeboats were lowering. Not
just the first boats, but the scenes she reported actually sound more like the scenes reported at the
aft lifeboats, which were lowered later – including emotional farewells, as well as ‘awful’
screaming and yelling. This would not represent the scene at the forward boats which were
lowered early on. So it seems almost certain that something in her account is simply missing.
Perhaps once they got on deck they waited for a period before approaching the lifeboat. This
single account does not answer all of the questions that it raises.
The Syracuse Herald, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Pawtucket Times, May 22, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Miss Dowdell’s account is compiled from her accounts in The Hudson Dispatch, April 20, 1912;
The Jersey Journal, April 20, 1912; The Hudson Observer, April 20, 1912. The Amy Stanley
portion of the story is compiled from The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912 (full account available in
On Board, Behe, 402–403). In two of her accounts, Elizabeth recalled quite a scene of congestion,
confusion and panic in getting up on deck. In her other account, she is quoted as saying that ‘there
was no great excitement’. It is possible that the newspaper reporters were ‘tarting up’ her account
in the re-telling, or it is possible that they encountered some congestion as they left the deck. It is
difficult to say with accuracy. One way or another, however, all three made it to the open decks
without any problem.
Palladium Times, September 11, 1985. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Indiscretions, 167; second newspaper account provided by Mike Poirier. Some additional details,
but not quotes, from On Board, Behe, 280–283.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2. Where exactly Gracie ran into Cullen is open to speculation
… was it in the Entrance? Was it after he returned to his cabin from the Entrance? If it was in the
Entrance that they met, did Cullen follow Gracie back to his cabin, or did Gracie find him again in
the Entrance? Gracie simply does not say.
Br. 5919–5936; Br. 5978–5980.
Amer. 276; Br. 14951–14974; Br. 14991–14993. The 12:20 a.m. time estimate of Pitman’s arrival
at No. 5 is his own estimate. Fireman Alfred Shiers also testified at the British Inquiry (Br. 4709–
4710) that he did not arrive at Boat No. 5 until ‘about three quarters of an hour’ after the collision,
or 12:25 a.m.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
American Medicine, May 1912. ‘My Experience in the Wreck of the Titanic’, by Henry
Frauenthal. Account available online at:
http://www.archive.org/stream/americanmedicine18newyuoft/americanmedicine18newyuoft_djvu.t
xt.
The Evening Tribune, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
352.
353.
354.
355.
356.
357.
358.
359.
360.
361.
362.
363.
364.
365.
366.
367.
368.
369.
370.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 264–277.
Amer. 802.
Amer. 1043.
Amer. 810–817; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike Poirier); The
Washington Post, April 20, 1912; The Washington Times, April 20, 1912. It should be recalled
that placing this portion of Etches’ account so late in unadjusted ship’s time should not be
construed as evidence that he was late in reporting to his post. As the clocks were supposed to
have been put back at midnight, Etches would have been due to arrive at that location at 12:23
a.m. unadjusted ship’s time, which Titanic was still keeping.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
On Board, Behe 148–150.
Newport Herald, May 28, 29, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe, 217–226.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2.
This information was conveyed by Maréchal to Secretary Williams of the Amalgamated
Musicians’ Union, and was subsequently passed on by Williams.
Birkenhead News (date unknown).
The time is clearly known because she also spotted Captain Smith there, after his second trip
below, and before Thomas Andrews came back up to inform him that the ship was doomed. The
facts also show that Smith returned to the Bridge at about 12:12 a.m., and shortly thereafter issued
orders for passengers to don their lifebelts. In her account, Jessop gives no details of her activity
between the time she saw Smith on the stairs, the time she saw the band, and the time she saw
officers loading the lifeboats. Gracie missed the order for passengers to don their lifebelts, given at
about 12:15, because he was in his cabin packing his bags. When he came back out, he found
people putting on their lifebelts; only then did he return to his cabin, put his lifebelt on, and then
return to the Promenade Deck. It was at that point, he recalled, that he began to hear the music.
Most likely, Gracie came out just after the lifebelt order had been passed at about 12:15, and it
could have taken about five minutes to return to his stateroom, fetch the belt, have his steward
fasten it, and return to the Promenade Deck.
If the order of Gracie’s recollections is correct, then it seems unlikely that they began playing
before 12:20 a.m. However, of Gracie’s three primary accounts, the detail about when the band
began to play only comes from one source, The Truth About the Titanic. It is possible that he was
slightly off in where he placed that statement – for example, if the band began to play as he was
coming back up instead of when he was on the Promenade Deck. At the other end of things,
Jessop may have omitted something between her sighting of Smith and the musicians, or between
her sighting of the musicians and of hearing the music begin. One way or another, 12:15–12:20
emerges as the most likely candidate for when the musicians began to play.
Please see Appendix J: The Last Song.
The Evening Banner, April 26, 1912.
Beesley, Ch. 3.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
A number of passengers called the First Class Reception Room on D Deck ‘the lounge’ in their
accounts. Some remembered the musicians playing in the evenings in the ‘lounge’. However, the
orchestra played according to a regular schedule, and they were never scheduled to play in the
Lounge on A Deck; No piano was even supplied to that room on either Olympic or Titanic. A
371.
372.
373.
374.
375.
376.
377.
378.
379.
380.
381.
382.
number of others also used the term ‘lounge’ to describe the various Entrance Foyers above D
Deck. As such, one should be careful about interpreting the word ‘lounge’ strictly to refer to the
First Class Lounge on A Deck.
Jack Thayer’s recollections about seeing the band in the ‘lounge on “A” Deck’ are complicated
by his apparent inconsistency in lettering the decks, and by his similar reference to passengers
pushing out onto the deck from that location. … This is because there was no direct access to the
Promenade Deck from the Lounge. He could just as easily have been referring to the Entrance
Foyer, which is precisely where a number of others, including Maréchal, spotted the band early in
their playing.
It is possible that the bandsmen had gone below to fetch their lifebelts just then.
New York Times, May 31, 1912.
Daily Mirror, April 30, 1912.
On Board, Behe, 305
Private letter from Elizabeth Nye to Walter Lord.
Br. 10800.
One of the three co-authors works in a family-operated business that performs piano tuning and
restoration. In the course of this line of work, he has moved many pianos through the years,
including large uprights of the dimensions and weights of the Steinway Model R that was in
Titanic’s Entrance. Pianos of that model weighed nearly 800 pounds, and were also a bit topheavy during any maneuvering. Without the use of tools, a dolly, and a team familiar with pianomoving, dismounting the piano, moving it through the vestibule door, around a 90° turn in the
vestibule, and then over the coaming at the doorway to the deck seems more likely to have gotten
someone wedged than anything else. It also would have inhibited the free flow of passenger and
crew traffic in and out of the port side Entrance during the entire time of the move.
Br. 10585–10593.
Beesley, Ch. 3.
Amer. 577–578.
Br. 5554–5564, 5576–5583; Br. 19923–19925; Scott’s testimony does not seem to imply that the
man in the tunnel was injured or caught in one of the watertight doors. Bedroom Steward
Theissinger gave a newspaper account in which he said: ‘The watertight doors were shut
immediately upon the first notice of the crash. … In the engine room one unfortunate, an engineer,
had his leg caught as a door swung to. It was crushed and he was held as in a vise. Before leaving
the Titanic I was told how he had begged to be shot to end his agony. His wish was complied with,
but this is the only shot I know of.’ (Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier. The story also ran in The Washington Herald on April 19, 1912, and is a very close match
with that from the Cleveland Plain Dealer.) However, Theissinger said that the man was an
engineer, and that the event took place in the Engine Room; Scott spoke of a greaser in the after
tunnel. Theissinger did not see the event first-hand, and there does not seem to be any other
available evidence of anyone being caught in a watertight door or caught and subsequently shot. It
is quite possible that his story was ‘tarted up’ by the reporter taking the story down before it went
to the wires, or that Theissinger had misheard the report, or it may simply have been an unfounded
rumor. The current authors simply cannot say where this story came from and whether there is
any truth to it or not.
Portland Oregonian, 1912; The Life and Times of Andrew Jackson Sloper by William Sloper,
1949. Mrs Warren referred to Andrews as ‘Mr. Perry, one of the designers of the vessel’. The
time estimate of seeing Andrews about 45 minutes after the collision is her own, and closely
matches where the present authors have concluded the sighting took place (about 12:22, or 42
minutes after the collision). Thanks go to George Behe for providing the authors with the above
383.
384.
385.
386.
387.
388.
389.
390.
accounts. Thanks are also due to Sam Halpern and George Behe, for helping to piece together the
exact sequence and timing of events in the first hour or so after the collision.
The New York Herald, April 19/20, 1912.
Br. 2840–2874. The time estimate for when Poingdestre was in the Seamen’s Quarters is his own.
The concept that Smith and Andrews went to the Bridge is an interpretation of evidence in hand;
most likely, Andrews would have wanted to discuss the matter with the Captain in a quiet place out
of earshot of other passengers, to avoid spreading alarm. As evidenced previously, Smith was
already on deck by this point, and the Bridge and Chart Room would not have been far away.
Br. 15610.
Second Officer Lightoller thought it took 45 minutes from the time of the collision until the orders
to fill the boats came down, or 12:25 a.m. (Amer. 431). Colonel Gracie also concluded from his
own observations ‘and those of others’, that it was 45 minutes after the collision when this order
was given. (The Truth About Titanic, Ch. 2) Seaman John Poingdestre’s testimony provides
supporting evidence. After spending some time uncovering a few boats, Poingdestre went below
into the Forecastle to get his boots. When a nearby wooden bulkhead collapsed, flooding his
quarters and nearly washing him away, he quickly returned to the upper decks. Once there, he
overheard Captain Smith give the order to ‘start putting the women and children into the boats’.
He estimated that it was about three-quarters of an hour after collision when the bulkhead
collapsed, or 12:25 a.m., and that he got out within half a minute. (Br. 2843–2846; Br. 2870–2874)
All of this is consistent with the evidence of First Class passenger Albert Dick, who stated that it
was ‘fully an hour after the vessel struck that the lifeboats were launched’. (The Waterloo Times
Tribune, April 19, 1912) First Class passenger Dickinson Bishop also said the time that the first
boat was launched was ‘about a quarter to 1’. (Amer. 1003)
Br. 2840–2874.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
New York Times, April 28, 1912. Why did Smith wait to send a call for assistance until this point?
Prior to 12:25 a.m., he had personally gone below deck twice, and between his own observations
and damage reported to him on the Bridge by the Carpenter, the Mail Clerk, etc., he was
convinced that some significant damage had been done to the vessel – enough to wake up the rest
of the officers and prepare the lifeboats. However, he did not know at that point that the ship was
doomed; nor did he learn this fact until Andrews broke the news to him some 45 minutes after the
collision. It would have made no sense for Captain Smith to pull the proverbial fire alarm on getting
assistance from other vessels until he was sure that they needed it. His conversation with Thomas
Andrews, after they had both come up from below, would have been the first time that he was
sure that the ship was doomed; it is thus the first point that Smith would have known that calling
for assistance was absolutely necessary.
That it took 47 minutes for the first distress call to be sent may seem surprising, but it took
nearly half an hour to discern that there was serious damage done to the ship – including two
inspection trips below by Boxhall, inspections by Andrews and Captain Smith, a conference on the
Bridge, Boxhall being sent to wake the other officers, and also to work out their position.
Harold Bride’s testimony and recollections of what was going on in the Marconi room paint a
very slow-moving picture, as well. He was not awakened by the collision, but woke up afterward;
he listened to Phillips working at the key for some time; at about 11:55 p.m. (Amer. 144) he rose
and talked to Phillips; then he got dressed to relieve the Senior Operator; he had taken over the
key and Phillips had closed the curtain to the sleeping berth when Captain Smith came in. After
Smith arrived, the distress call was sent very quickly; but obviously quite a bit of time elapsed
between the collision and Captain Smith’s appearance with the orders to send the call for distress.
Bride admitted he could not estimate exact times of certain events on the stand at the U.S. Inquiry,
391.
and seemed confused when presented with evidence that the first distress call went out at 10:25
p.m. NYT.
Another point to keep in mind is that in his story presented to The New York Times upon
arriving in New York, Bride said that Captain Smith came to the Marconi office and warned them
to be ready to send a distress call, but not to send it yet. He also stated in that article that the
Captain returned 10 minutes later and told them to send the call. He did not discuss this early visit
during his testimony; however, as discussed previously, Smith’s known movements, the timeline for
when he returned from his inspection tour below, and when the first distress signal was sent, all
tend to support Bride’s story about a 10 minute gap between two visits, with the order to send the
call coming during the second.
The first distress calls sent from the ship had a longitude of 50° 24’ W; these were sent for 10
minutes before the position changed to 50° 14’ W. The initial position was apparently derived by
Captain Smith before he had asked Boxhall to do a second dead reckoning fix of their position. For
further information on this, see Sam Halpern’s article, ‘It’s A CQD OM’, Parts 1 & 2 (TIS’
Voyage Nos 64 & 65).
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
CHAPTER 5: THE LOSING BATTLE
It is very fortunate that Captain Smith took the proactive measures of ordering the crew to
uncover and clear the lifeboats, and to have the off-duty officers awakened before he began his
inspection below; by making the decision to prepare the boats early, much time was saved in
getting them away later.
Many have speculated on what caused the apparent breakdown in communication between
Captain Smith and his officers over what to do once the boats were ready to load. This may
actually have been because Captain Smith had taken the precautionary measure of having the
boats uncovered before he knew that the ship was doomed, and before he knew that the boats
would actually need to be used. By the time of that discovery, the officers and men were, to a
large extent, spread out across the length of both sides of the Boat Deck; calling them all back to
give orders would have caused a delay in the work when a time crunch was foremost in Captain
Smith’s mind.
It is the present authors’ feelings that this combination of circumstances may have caused the
subsequent breakdown in communication. It would also explain why some of the officers did not
believe the ship’s wounds to be mortal for so long after Captain Smith discovered the fact.
Br. 15385–15386.
October 1962 BBC radio interview; Sam Halpern, ‘It’s A CQD, Old Man’, available through his
web site, www.titanicology.com.
Br. 15610.
Br. Inquiry Report – List of Communications. Since times on this document are all given in New
York time, the times given in this narrative have been adjusted forward by 2 hours and 2 minutes to
represent accurate Apparent Time Ship during the sinking.
Pageant, October 1953. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Duluth Herald, May 1, 1912; The Duluth News Tribune, May 2, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912); Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown; both accounts are contained in On Board,
Behe.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
On Board, Behe; also deposition of George Rheims given in U.S. District Court during the
Limitation of Liability hearings, November 14, 1913. It is important to look at both of Rheims’
accounts, as his Limitation of Liability testimony omits certain details such as his return to his
stateroom – where he dressed warmly and donned a lifebelt – before going back to the Boat
Deck. In Rheims’ early account, he said it was ‘an officer’ who gave them the order to put on
their lifebelts; in his Limitation of Liability testimony, he said it was Thomas Andrews. As his later
testimony is more detailed on the point, the present authors believe it is probably the more accurate
identification.
Br. 13288–13291; 13304, 13305, 13311. Interestingly, she believed that this conversation occurred
‘three-quarters of an hour’ after the collision, or around 12:25 a.m.; this very nicely lines up with
other estimates of the timing of events during the first hour after the collision, and was about
fifteen minutes after she had seen Andrews below deck.
Bullock. Please also see Mary Sloan’s letter to her sister, reprinted in On Board, Behe, 395–397.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold. If this detail is true, it
displays an enormous lack of situational awareness on the part of the Third Class stewards, even
after it was apparent that the flooding in the forward cabins was significant. One must wonder
whether any of these passengers ended up putting their lifebelts on again later, and if not, if this
false sense of security instilled by the stewards cost additional lives.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Account of Daly, written down by Dr Frank Blackmarr onboard the Carpathia, and signed by
Daly. Reproduced in “Dr. Frank Blackmarr’s Remarkable Scrapbook,” Titanic Commutator, 3rd
Quarter 1998; Titanic Story by Mary Daly Joyce, Eugene Daly’s daughter. This account is
available on the St. Louis Today website at
http://images.stltoday.com/stltoday/resources/titanicstory.pdf
Information courtesy of Bertha Mulvihill’s family.
Br. 9921–9929.
Palladium Times, September 11, 1985. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Information courtesy of Bertha Mulvihill’s family; The Irish Sunday Press, June/July 1956,
courtesy of Geoff Whitfield. While it has often been stated that all the single Third Class male
passengers or men traveling alone on the ship were berthed in the bow of the ship, and that all the
single women, women traveling alone, and families were berthed in the stern, there is reason to
question whether this was universally true.
In a letter to his sister describing his ordeal, Eugene Daly describes going up on deck following
the collision, presumably to the forward Well Deck, and recalled that he next ‘went down and went
to the room where Maggie Daly and Bertha Mulvihill were.’ It doesn’t sound as if he went aft; in
fact, later in his letter he says that after waking the two girls, he went for a ‘lifebuoy’, (or lifebelt)
in the stern, and that the girls came with him. This sounds as if they went aft with him, not that
they were already aft.
Bertha Mulvihill’s private accounts to her family indicate that she was nearly thrown from her
bed by the collision, which would not have been the case had she been berthed in the stern, where
the collision was not felt so strongly. Furthermore, she claimed her cabin was located near one of
the ship’s boiler rooms, and that a ‘fireman’ knocked her down the stairs when they were trying to
go up on deck. The boiler rooms were located from below the third funnel forward. The stern
Third Class cabins were located well aft of the boiler rooms.
Bertha also told her family that water came into the passageway outside her door not long after
the collision. Additionally, Margaret Daly’s descriptions of her cabin being ‘under five feet of
water’ when she attempted to return to it makes little sense if they were berthed in the stern Third
Class cabins, directly below the Poop Deck – spaces which did not flood prior to the ship breaking
in half. On the other hand, her description does match the testimony of fellow Irish Third Class
passenger Daniel Buckley, who was berthed in the bow, and described similar flooding. He said
there was some water outside his cabin shortly after the collision, and that he went up on deck
before returning below to get a lifebelt. He was blocked from doing so by a rush of water at the
bottom of the staircase, which covered the bottom three or four stairs (Amer. 1019).
Contrast Margaret Daly’s description of the flooding with the known rate of flooding as
reported by crewmembers below deck, and in compartments well forward of the stern Third Class
cabins. The ship’s boiler rooms were numbered 1 through 6, with Boiler Room No. 1 being furthest
aft, and Boiler Room No. 6 furthest forward. Leading Fireman Frederick Barrett reported that
there was a rush of water in the pass between the boilers in Boiler Room No. 5 at 1:10 a.m. (Br.
24.
25.
26.
2348–2349) Boiler Room No. 5 was below the forward funnel. That location was just beginning to
flood at 1:10 a.m.
According to Trimmer Thomas Dillon, water was just coming up over the forward stokehold
plates in Boiler Room No. 4, aft of Boiler Room No. 5, when he was ordered up on deck around
1:20 a.m. He said that at that time, water had not yet reached the boiler rooms further aft, Nos 3, 2
and 1 (Br. 3811; Br. 3913). The boiler rooms only extended as far aft as the third funnel, far
forward of where the Third Class cabins were located under the Poop Deck. This is strong
evidence that at least some women were indeed berthed in the bow. Perhaps Bertha and Margaret
were berthed forward due to being in the charge of Daly?
An analysis of all the evidence suggests that the two girls may have been berthed in one of the
two-person Third Class cabins located in the bow on E Deck, aft of watertight bulkhead B.
Neither girl mentioned anyone else having been in their cabin with them, and the Third Class
cabins on F and G Deck appear to have been for single men only. Their cabin being located on E
Deck corresponds with the aforementioned testimony of Seaman Poingdestre, who indicated that
the wooden bulkhead separating the Seamen’s Quarters on E Deck from the Third Class
passenger space there collapsed around 12:25 a.m., flooding the compartment with 3 feet of water.
Since the water that collapsed the bulkhead came from the Third Class side of the deck, it appears
that at that point, water had already flooded the Third Class berths on E Deck several feet deep at
least.
Corroborating evidence for at least some of the steerage women being berthed in the bow of
the ship comes from the accounts of Third Class survivors Emily Badman and Anna Sjöblom. Both
girls also felt the collision strongly, and were woken up by it. Emily Badman stated that her berth
was ‘up near the front on the right hand of the Titanic’. She describes having a porthole in her
cabin, and there being four girls total, including herself, berthed in the room. (The Syracuse
Herald, April 23, 1912) Anna Sjöblom did not explicitly state that her room was in the bow as
Badman did, but like Mulvihill, she said: ‘Water began coming up where I was in a short time, and I
fought my way to get above it.’ (unknown newspaper and date) This would only have been
possible if her cabin was in the bow, since the stern cabins did not flood that early.
Like Mulvihill and Daly’s cabin, Badman’s room could very well have been on E Deck.
Blueprints of the ship indicate a four-person cabin with a porthole forward on the starboard side of
E Deck, aft of watertight bulkhead B, and near the staircase up to D Deck, very near one of the
cabins that Mulvihill and Daly may have occupied. Sjöblom’s account doesn’t give enough detail to
narrow down a specific cabin, but it must have been located near Maggie Daly’s in order to have
begun flooding so early.
The present authors would like to thank Sam Halpern for sharing his thoughts on the possible
location of the girls’ cabins, and Mike Poirier for sending the Badman and Sjöblom accounts to us.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
In his account, Nichols said that A Deck was the deck he was headed for, which on Titanic would
have referred to the Promenade Deck. However, Nichols also said that the deck he was headed
for was ‘where the lifeboats are’. This can only mean the Boat Deck. Other ships of the period,
such as the Lusitania and Mauretania, labeled their Boat Deck ‘A Deck’, and thus at times when
passengers or crew referred to A Deck, they were actually referring to the Boat Deck.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. At a casual glance, Nichols’
account might seem to suggest a very, very early lowering of multiple boats on the starboard side.
However, this is not necessarily the case.
Nichols said that he had been called out about 45 minutes after the collision, or 12:25. A
leisurely walk up to the Boat Deck from E Deck might have taken at most five minutes. When he
got up on deck, at about 12:30 by this reckoning, he saw passengers in the Gymnasium. Then he
spoke about his assigned boats, aft, and said that boat crews were working on Nos 11 and 13. He
also mentioned that when he looked down, he could see ‘several of the boats were already in the
water’. But this would mean that at least Boats Nos 3, 5 and 7 (the first three boats to leave the
starboard side) – and possibly a fourth, No. 1, as ‘several’ usually refers to three or four – had
already been lowered away by 12:30 a.m. Under even the best of circumstances, this was
impossibly good performance at prepping, loading and lowering those 3–4 boats, and is at odds with
the general timing presented by numerous other lines of evidence. This includes an overwhelming
amount of evidence that the boats did not even start loading until 12:25 a.m.
So how does this account fit into the larger picture? By his own words, it can be easily
established that Nichols was on deck when Boats Nos 11 through 15 were swung out from the
deck. Doctor Washington Dodge had put his wife and son into Boat No. 5. That boat was lowered
away at 12:45 a.m. Dodge then waited, by his own estimation, ‘half or three-quarters of an hour’
before seeing Boats Nos 13 and 15 swung out and lowered simultaneously to A Deck. Nos 13 and
15 were subsequently lowered to the water at 1:40 a.m., some 55 minutes after No. 5 was
lowered. Nichols remembered that ‘it took us about twenty minutes to fill our lifeboat and get
away’. So this portion of Nichols’ account, and Dodge’s estimation of the timing seem to fit
together rather nicely.
It seems from all available information that Boats Nos 13 and 15 were not swung out and
lowered down to the deck until shortly before they were lowered down to A Deck to fill, although
they had almost certainly been uncovered and prepared before that point. With this in mind, notice
the pertinent and otherwise confusing portion of Nichols’ account:
No. 15, my boat, was the after boat on the starboard side. All the odd numbered boats are on
one side of the ship and the even numbered boats on the other. There were ten of us to man the
boat, which is a big one, holding about seventy to eighty persons. When I got on deck it was still
dark, but I could hear the wireless machine sputter. I didn’t see any icebergs or anything. Up on
Deck A, which is the boat deck, [sic] there were only the boat crews. At least that is all I could
see. I saw them working away at Boat No. 11 and Boat No. 13. When I looked down I saw
that several of the boats were already in the water. [Authors’ emphasis.] The ship was brightly
lit, and I could see the boats, with people in them, floating about in the reflection of the light of the
ship.
The officer in charge of the boats on that part of the deck had a revolver in his hand.
[Authors’ emphasis.] He gave his orders quietly and we didn’t realize even then that anything
serious was the matter. The ship was down in the water a little forward but you couldn’t notice it
much from where I was.
So Nichols seems to indicate in this account that he saw the boats in the water when he saw
work at Nos 11 and 13. He also indicates that he saw an officer with a revolver in his hands
(apparently, but not certainly, this was not a reference to Murdoch, since he named Murdoch later
and not here). His reference to seeing lifeboats in the water is thus sandwiched directly between
work on Nos 11 and 13 and seeing an officer at the aft boats with a revolver.
Additionally, there are a few odd things mentioned in his account. The first oddity is that he
recalled that he ‘could hear the wireless machine sputter’. This is an utter impossibility, as the set
itself was housed in a soundproof room within the structure of the Officers’ Quarters, forward of
his position.
Nichols shortly thereafter named ‘First Officer Murdock’ as the officer in charge of loading on
‘Deck B’ (meaning the A Deck Promenade). However, there is no other evidence to suggest that
Murdoch was at the A Deck Promenade at that time; instead, the evidence indicates that he
stayed on the Boat Deck. Most likely, Nichols was referring to the time when Murdoch was
prepping the lifeboat at the Boat Deck before sending it down the Promenade Deck to complete
27.
28.
29.
30.
loading; however, if this is the case, this would seem to be another apparent inconsistency in
Nichols’ account.
Finally, and perhaps most stunning, Nichols reportedly saw John Jacob Astor ‘kiss his wife
goodby [sic]’. This was not a claim that someone else had seen them part, and that it was reported
to him. This was a claim of a direct sighting, as Nichols said he recognized them because the
Colonel ‘had been pointed out’ to him in the Saloon. Yet Astor did not bid a final farewell to his
wife until Boat No. 4, which left well after Nichols did by all accounts.
Additionally, Nichols was ‘just forward of the Engine Room’ in his quarters on E Deck. His
assigned lifeboat (No. 15) was the furthest aft on the starboard side. If he had wished to go
directly to his lifeboat from his quarters, he almost certainly would have used the working staircase
just forward of the Engine Room, which on Titanic (in a change from the Olympic’s 1911 design)
ran all the way up to the Boat Deck. After being aboard the ship that long, it is utterly
inconceivable that Nichols would not have been thoroughly familiar with the fastest route up to No.
15. Despite this, he mentions the Gymnasium, off the forward Grand Staircase, next in his account.
From this, the current authors can establish a couple of theories as to why this apparent
disparity exists. The first possibility is that he went up the forward Grand Staircase in order to see
if he could be of any assistance as he went up, and was perhaps delayed in reaching the deck.
Another possibility is that he went to No. 15 immediately – whatever route he took – and then
found that work was not being done there at the time; at that point he, not unlike Steward Ray with
Boat No. 9 when he found it was not ready for him, may have moved on to other areas where he
thought he could be more useful.
Most likely, Nichols gave his account slightly out of order, jumping back and forth to fill in
details; it is also possible that some errors may have crept in as the reporter was taking notes and
later transcribing them. Whatever happened to him between the time he started topside and the
time No. 13 was eventually lowered, what can be ascertained is that Nichols account is
problematic. It is filled with dubious details and inconsistencies even when compared to itself, let
alone when compared to other accounts or timelines. Because of these issues, this account does
not on its own necessitate a shift of the timing of the lowering for the first lifeboats.
If anything the pertinent portion of his account, with the sighting of lifeboats in the water
sandwiched between the swinging-out of the after boats and seeing an officer there with a gun in
his hand, is supplementary, not directly contradictory, to the timeline suggested by the larger body
of evidence. Evidence indicates that this sighting simply happened later than a simple read-through
of his account would at first indicate. It is simply impossible to be dogmatic about the timing of
events based on this account.
Amer. 971.
Amer. 577–578.
Amer. 596.
Etches estimated that he saw Andrews on B Deck ‘about 20 minutes past 12’. (Amer. 812)
However, this cannot be correct. As has already been established, Andrews was conducting his
inspection of the damage below decks at that time, and did not rush back to the Bridge until 12:25
a.m. Interestingly, when Etches was speaking to Steward Stone on E Deck, before heading up to
A Deck, he recalled asking Stone: ‘What is the time?’ Stone replied: ‘Never mind about that.’ This
may indicate that Etches was estimating the times he recalled, and that he may not even have had
a timepiece on him when he turned out of his cabin. If this is true, then this would certainly explain
why he mis-estimated the time that he met Andrews.
Etches’ sighting of Andrews likely occurred sometime shortly after his estimated time of 12:20
a.m. Very likely it was just after Andrews had been on A Deck and ordered Annie Robinson to get
her lifebelt on.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
Amer. 810–817; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike Poirier); The
Washington Post, April 20, 1912; The Washington Times, April 20, 1912.
There was one Boatswain, Alfred Nichols, and one Boatswain’s Mate, Albert Haines. It seems
that Hogg was referring to Nichols, although it is nearly impossible to be certain. However, if it
was Nichols, then it might fit in well with the fact that he had been ordered by Second Officer
Lightoller to open the gangway doors in order to help load the lifeboats from there. Perhaps the
Jacob’s ladder was for that endeavor? While speculation, the whole effort went by the wayside,
and the Jacob’s ladder was never delivered to the Boatswain.
Amer. 577–578.
Amer. 388. Lowe later estimated that the head was down 12–15 degrees at that moment.
According to research conducted by Sam Halpern, in the article, ‘Titanic’s Sinking: Angles of Trim
and Heel’, published in The Titanic Commutator, No. 174, the forward trim at this point would
have been about 3°. However it is easy, for someone standing on a canted deck, to feel that the
trim or list is greater than it actually is.
Amer. 387–388; Br. 15790–15810.
Br. 13872–13875. Able Bodied Seaman Poingdestre testified that he heard Captain Smith himself
order the crew to begin putting the women and children into the boats. (Br. 2874) The fact that
Lightoller had to ask the Captain for permission to begin preparing, and then again to load the boats
is often cited as an example of Smith being an ineffective commander during the sinking. In fact, it
seems that work in this area was only then catching up to the proactive orders that Captain Smith
had already given to Poingdestre and the other crewmen.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Amer. 971.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Account reproduced in On Board, Behe, 208–209.
Chicago Evening Post, April 23, 1912. See On Board, Behe, 344.
Amer. 802.
Amer. 596.
Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Mrs Cassebeer’s account can be read in On Board, Behe,
235–237; also the account by Mrs Hoyt given in the Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23,
1912. Additional private accounts also provided by NMM/Mike Poirier Collection.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Patriot, April 20, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Beesley, Ch. 3. The Toronto World, April 19, 1912 (On Board, Behe, 157–162).
A quick read of Beesley’s book account might suggest that the Second Class boats were nearly
ready to load by 12:20. However, the time he gave was ‘about 12:20’. He did not give any time
estimates in his written newspaper accounts. This would suggest that he was only estimating the
times much later when writing the book, in order to expand on his first account. The possibility of
an error in this estimation is clear, but should be placed as close to the estimate as other events will
allow. Another thing to keep in mind is that Beesley also mentioned that time at the outset of the
work being done on the boats. It is obvious that this effort took some time, as the covers were still
on the boats and they had to be thoroughly prepared.
Beesley said that the first boat on the starboard side to receive attention was Boat No. 9. It is
also known that Steward Ray found that No. 9 was just being cranked out at about 12:45 a.m.,
when Boat No. 7 was lowered.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike
Poirier). The wording of Theissinger’s account suggests that he went from C Deck down to D
Deck, met with Brewster there, and then the pair passed back up the staircase through the C
Deck entrance. Theissinger does not say what, if any time, he spent with Brewster on D Deck, or
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
where they met, so it is difficult to judge just how long he was below on D Deck before coming
back up.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2. This recollection only appeared in Gracie’s book, and not in
his Senate Inquiry testimony or in his April 1912 written account. In the book, it is sandwiched
between other details which are included in those other accounts.
Where does this bit fit in with the rest of Gracie’s account? Clearly, the order had not yet been
passed for ladies to proceed toward Boat No. 4, and so Gracie was able to use this information to
reassure the ladies that help was on the way. The exact time of Titanic’s first wireless distress call
is also known: 10:25 p.m. New York Time, or 12:27 a.m. Titanic time, when the correct 2 hour, 2
minute time difference is accounted for. So this had to have occurred after 12:27 a.m. ship’s time,
and before word was passed to proceed to the lifeboats. Interestingly, Gracie placed this very
close to the time which he gave as his sighting of the ship off the Titanic’s port bow. This
harmonizes very well with the timing of Boxhall’s spotting of the same light on the horizon.
Although Gracie placed the word of wireless traffic coming down before the sighting of the
light, his testimony at the Senate Inquiry (page 990) indicates that this sighting happened very
shortly after he came across the ladies on the Promenade Deck. It is possible that the two events
occurred so closely to one another that the order was reversed when he inserted the detail into the
text of The Truth About the Titanic. No matter which one of the two events occurred first in
reality, it is clear that the sighting of the light and subsequent conversation with Astor would not
have taken very long. Thus, the present authors have placed both incidents in the order in which
Gracie mentioned them.
Wireless contact with other vessels was established immediately at 12:27 a.m. ship’s time, and
the word apparently traveled quickly down to Gracie and others on the Promenade Deck, arriving
there by no later than about 12:40 (when word came down for the ladies to move toward Boat No.
4 on the Promenade Deck). Also note that this statement is nonspecific; it was not based upon the
Carpathia’s 12:49 a.m. (10:47 p.m. NYT) message that she was headed to the Titanic’s
assistance. Rather this news – as it reached Gracie – was probably based on the early wireless
responses which Phillips and Bride received, which the officers seem to have relayed to
passengers as certain word of a rescue ship’s coming.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2.
Amer. 233. According to Boxhall, when he had finished calculating the position, he reported to
Captain Smith, who ordered him to take it to the Marconi operators.
With the position of the ship’s wreck site established, it is now known that Boxhall’s famous
position was off by approximately 13 miles, and Captain Smith’s initial estimate was equally
flawed; both were the product of a miscalculation in their dead reckoning and/or their calculations.
Titanic researcher Sam Halpern has made a very well-reasoned case that 41° 45.5’ N, 49° 55’ W
was the actual site of the collision with the iceberg. The actual location of the Titanic’s wreck, as
measured from the center of the boiler field, which likely dropped right to the ocean floor, is 41°
43.5’ N, 49° 56.8’ W. Refer to his articles ‘Collision Point’ (at the Great Lakes Titanic Society’s
site http://www.glts.org/articles/halpern/collision_point.html), and ‘It’s A CQD OM’ Parts 1 & 2
(TIS’ Voyage Nos 64 & 64).
Amer. 148–149.
Amer. 333–334.
The Evening Tribune, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Coshocton Tribune, April 19, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier; A Night to Remember 67.
Minneapolis World, (date unknown). Courtesy Mike Poirier. Additional details (but not quotes)
can be found in John Snyder’s account of April 24, 1912, published in On Board, Behe, 401–402.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
Amer. 1043; April 24, 1912 account by Mrs Chambers (unknown newspaper), provided by Mike
Poirier.
This communication, as well as its New York time of 10:36 p.m., was fixed at the British Inquiry in
the final report.
Pageant, October 1953. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 334. Peuchen was later rather confused about how the boats were numbered, and there is
some room for interpretation in his statements. From the overall timing of his story, it seems certain
that he reached the Boat Deck in time to clear the masts out of Boat No. 4 before it was lowered
to the Promenade Deck. Based on his description of events, it appears that he subsequently loaded
No. 8 before leaving in Boat No. 6.
Br. 13834; Amer. 81.
Br. 10953–10956.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2. Gracie determined that the order to load the boats came
down 45 minutes after the collision based upon his ‘own conclusions, and those of others’, in
agreement with other estimates of when this order was given. In his earlier testimony at the
Senate Inquiry, Gracie described events on the Promenade Deck. He referred specifically to his
conversation with John Jacob Astor, and then he said: ‘Some time elapsed, I should say from
three-quarters of an hour to an hour before we were ordered to the boats.’ It would seem that by
the time Gracie had written his book, after corresponding with other survivors, he determined that
the order had been given closer to forty-five minutes after the collision, rather than an hour.
Only one lifeboat, No. 4, reached the forward port quarter of the Promenade Deck for direct
loading. It seems that the order sending the women and children down to A Deck to board the
lifeboat from that location was given before the crew realized that the windows needed to be
opened and that the cranks were missing; the loading was subsequently halted and delayed so long
that No. 4 did not begin lowering away until 1:50 a.m. Gracie may have believed that the other
boats were being lowered to the Promenade Deck because he saw them descending from the
Boat Deck; however, these other port boats were never lowered to A Deck.
When Gracie’s account is examined for timing and placed in the proper location in the timeline, it
sheds light on Sixth Officer Moody’s whereabouts between being seen uncovering the aft port
boats very shortly after midnight by Third Officer Pitman, and his subsequent involvement in the
loading of Boat No. 16, which lowered away at 1:20 a.m. Previously, his whereabouts during that
stretch of time had been unknown.
Amer. 990 .
Ibid.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2. It is important to note that this entire exchange occurred on
the Promenade Deck, not on the Boat Deck, and was a prelude to the Strauses’ final near- (and
then non-) parting at Boat 8.
The Evening Tribune, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 882–883.
Amer. 882
Amer. 665
Mrs Chambers’ account, April 24, 1912 (unknown newspaper). Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 1043.
Mrs Chambers’ account, April 24, 1912 (unknown newspaper). Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 13834.
Br. 13858–13859.
Br. 13906; Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
Please see Appendix I: The Loss of Titanic’s Deck Crew Over Time, for further information on
this crew shortage.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 264–277.
Amer. 810–817; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike Poirier); The
Washington Post, April 20, 1912; The Washington Times, April 20, 1912. It seems that Etches
made only a single trip to his section on B Deck, awakening Guggenheim and Giglio, before being
intercepted by Andrews and discovering that the rest of his passengers were already up. In his
testimony, he said that he had told Guggenheim that he would return; however, the exact wording
of his testimony – when taken in context and not excerpted ‘close to the bone’ in the form of a
single sentence – seems to indicate that he saw Guggenheim and Giglio depart their cabins before
he left the section with Andrews and went down to C Deck. This would explain why, when he
saw the two men on the Boat Deck during the loading of Boats Nos. 5 and 7, he was surprised to
find that they had returned to their staterooms after he had left them, and that the two men had
fully dressed, also apparently removing their lifebelts in the process. While there is some room for
interpretation in Etches’ testimony, this seems to be the most straightforward and simple
explanation for his movements during the period.
Indiscretions, 167; second newspaper account provided by Mike Poirier. Some additional details,
but not quotes, from On Board, Behe, 280–283.
As described earlier in the narrative, Lookouts Hogg and Alfred Evans relieved their shipmates in
the Crow’s Nest at midnight, and after 20 minutes, they saw ‘people running about with lifebelts
on’ down on the Boat Deck. (Amer. 577–588). This is consistent with the order for passengers to
begin coming up on deck with lifebelts on being given between 12:10–12:20 a.m., as previously
discussed.
Obviously, when Hogg and Evans relieved Fleet and Lee at midnight, they were ahead of the
normal 12:23 a.m. change of shift that Quartermasters Hichens and Rowe testified about. It seems
most likely that when the ship’s crew were ordered to turn out at 12:00 a.m., instead of going up on
deck to help clear the lifeboats, they went to relieve their mates in the Crow’s Nest.
Lookouts Fleet and Lee support Hogg’s testimony. Fleet testified that he and Lee were relieved
in the Crow’s Nest ‘a quarter of an hour to 20 minutes after’ the collision. (Amer. 319) Lee also
testified that he was relieved at 12:00 a.m. (Br. 2454), and that he was below deck when he heard
the Boatswain give the order to begin uncovering the boats. He knew it was about midnight
because the off-duty watch had just come below when this order came down. (Br. 2488a–2493).
Amer. 578.
Minneapolis World (date unknown). Courtesy Mike Poirier. Additional details can be found in
John Snyder’s account of April 24, 1912, which can be found in On Board, Behe, 401–402.
Amer. 596–597.
The Hartford Times, April 19, 1912. Account available in On Board, Behe, 174–177. The concept
that the Astors were so close to boarding No. 7 together is quite an astounding one. Whatever the
motive for their decision, it was to prove very costly to them both.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Newburgh Daily News, April 26, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. It should be remembered that this
account of Mrs Flegenheim’s experiences was given second-hand by her friends, Mr and Mrs
William Walker, of New Windsor, New York. If one were to read her account without studying the
larger picture of the timing of certain events, one could twist it into proof that the boats started
lowering much earlier than they actually did. However, using this account to support such a
timeline would be an unscholarly approach to the affair, as it was second-hand. There are clear
gaps in her story of what happened, as presented in this account. As this seems to be one of the
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
few accounts given by Mrs Flegenheim of her experiences that night, however, it – such as it is –
has been included.
Additionally, it seems to have been assumed over the years that Mrs Flegenheim departed in
Boat No. 7; there may be room for interpretation on the point, as it seems she never said it was
No. 7, but rather that it was ‘the first boat’ to leave. Many passengers said that they were in the
‘first’ or ‘last’ boat to leave, and yet their recollections are clearly far from accurate. However,
placing her at Boat No. 7 does seem to fit with the overall timeline, so at this point the current
authors have concluded that she most likely did board No. 7.
The Washington Times, April 20, 1912. Popular myth holds that this conversation took place
shortly before the sinking. In reality, it had to have taken place prior to Etches’ departure from the
ship in Boat No. 5, sometime around 12:43 a.m.
The Washington Post, April 20, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
Newburgh Daily News, April 20, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. The identity of this steward is a
little unclear. The newspaper account lists the source as a ‘room steward’ named ‘John Johnson’.
The only problem is that there was no such person. Steward James Johnstone gave an account on
April 19, published in the April 20, 1912 edition of the Worcester Evening Gazette. In that article,
he was listed as ‘John Johnson’. It is possible that Johnstone – whose name was frequently
misspelled and misheard as Johnson – gave a second interview subsequently published in the
Newburgh Daily News. Because this is a speculative identification, however, the present authors
have left the names out of the description in the narrative.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 23, 1912; Stars and Stripes, April 16, 1955. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
Amer. 1143.
New York Times, April 22, 1912.
Throughout this chapter, lifeboat launch times will be noted in accord with the previously mentioned
article, ‘Titanic: The Lifeboat Launching Sequence Re-Examined’, by Bill Wormstedt, Tad Fitch
and George Behe, with contributions by Sam Halpern and J. Kent Layton. The lifeboat launch
table contained in this chapter is also from this article.
This article represents the present the best attempts of the present authors, as well as George
Behe and Sam Halpern, to build an objective and accurate timeline and lifeboat launch sequence
from the ground up. We have worked objectively from all available eyewitness and forensic
evidence, starting from scratch, and letting the evidence guide our conclusions. Pre-existing notions
regarding the lifeboat launch times were tossed out. The findings of previously published timelines
– many of which bear flaws or conflict with eyewitness accounts, were not the basis for the
authors’ conclusions.
In another recent examination of the evidence by Senan Molony (‘Resetting Titanic’s
Chronology: Early Boats, Early Rockets’, published simultaneously in the British Titanic Society’s
Atlantic Daily Bulletin and in the Titanic International Society’s Voyage No. 62), the author
attempted to prove that the time when the distress rockets began to be launched was earlier than is
currently accepted. In doing so, Molony concluded that the first lifeboat to leave, No. 7, was
lowered at 12:25 a.m. – about fifteen minutes before the time the present authors concluded in
their article, and twenty minutes earlier than the launch time the British Inquiry stated in its final
report. However, a thorough and objective examination of all the evidence indicates that Molony’s
conclusions do not accurately represent the sequence and timing of events that night.
Evidence discussed earlier in the narrative indicates that the order to uncover and clear the
boats was proactively given by Captain Smith around 12:00 a.m., before he went below deck for
the second time to begin his inspection tour, and before he knew that the ship was sinking.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
Molony’s claim that the lifeboats could have began lowering away as early 12:25 a.m. is not
consistent with this evidence. Second Officer Lightoller estimated that it took 15–20 minutes to
uncover a lifeboat (Br. 13855). Fifth Officer Lowe estimated it would take 20 minutes to get a boat
uncovered, swung out, and into the water (Amer. 406). However, Lowe’s estimate does not
include the time needed to load passengers into the boats. As he said, ‘it was not the launching of
the boats that took the time. We got the whole boat out and in the water in less than ten minutes. It
was getting the people together that took the time.’ (Amer. 277). With the order to uncover the
boats not coming until 12:00 a.m., these estimates by two seasoned officers indicate that the boats
would not have been uncovered or even ready to start loading until around 12:20 a.m., much less
filling them and then lowering away.
Furthermore, as detailed previously, Captain Smith did not know that the ship was doomed until
around 12:25 a.m., when Thomas Andrews was seen by two eyewitnesses rushing up the Grand
Staircase to deliver that news. Prior to that time, there was no reason for Smith to order the boats
loaded. Molony’s conclusions would have us believe that the lifeboats were being lowered before
the evidence suggests the Captain even knew the ship was mortally wounded. Additionally, as
shown earlier in the narrative, there is ample evidence that the order to swing out the boats and
begin getting the passengers on deck with their lifebelts on wasn’t given until sometime between
12:10–12:25 a.m., and that the order to begin loading women and children into the boats wasn’t
given until 12:25 a.m. At that point, time still would have been needed to load the boats with
passengers – passengers who were very apprehensive to board the boats at that point. This makes
a 12:40 a.m. departure the most plausible conclusion.
The aforementioned article by Bill Wormstedt, Tad Fitch and George Behe, with contributions
by Sam Halpern and J. Kent Layton, goes into the evidence supporting a launch time of 12:40 a.m.
for Boat No. 7 in significantly more detail. Allsources are footnoted and listed.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 264–277; also an article named ‘60
Years Ago The Titanic Went Down’ (paper unknown) containing an interview with young
Washington Dodge, account courtesy of Mike Poirier.
Br. 15809–15811.
Throughout this and the subsequent chapters, the estimated number of occupants in each boat
when it was lowered, as well as details pertaining to persons transferred between boats once
afloat, those rescued from the water, etc., will be drawn from the online article ‘Titanic Lifeboat
Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011. This article examines in depth the
eyewitness accounts and forensic evidence related to the issue of the number of people who were
rescued in each boat, with all sources documented and footnoted; it is available online at the
following URL: http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Deposition of Elizabeth Lines, given as part of the Limitation of Liability hearings, November 24,
1913; Boston Traveler, April 15, 1966; unknown newspaper, August 6, 1975. These two
newspaper articles are courtesy of Mike Poirier.
Amer. 277. Some researchers have concluded that this reference to ‘two or three minutes’
referred to the entire process of stripping the cover, prepping the boat, swinging it out and lowering
it down to the deck level. However, studying the context of Pitman’s testimony, it is clear that he
was only referring to the operation of the davits. The entire process of preparing the boat for
loading would therefore have taken more than two or three minutes.
Amer. 276–277.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
The Coshocton Tribune, April 19, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Indiscretions, 167; second newspaper account provided by Mike Poirier. Some additional details,
but not quotes, On Board, Behe, 280–283.
The Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Additional private accounts also provided by NMM/Mike
Poirier Collection.
The Binghamton Press, April 29, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Additional later accounts by Mrs
Cassebeer also supplied by NMM/Mike Poirier Collection. This sighting is interesting, as one of
Ismay’s own accounts suggests that he returned to his stateroom and put on a suit – apparently
over his pajamas – directly after speaking to Chief Engineer Bell. It seems that Ismay did not take
the time to remove his pajamas or put on a proper shirt during that trip to his stateroom. In his
haste, he may also have neglected to put on more formal footwear.
Amer. 971; The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 7.
Amer. 816–817.
Although Norman Chambers recalled that this was Boat No. 7, his description of events and other
evidence – particularly his wife’s account of April 24, 1912 – actually matches Boat No. 5.
Colonel Gracie also believed that the Chambers made it into No. 5.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Account reproduced in On Board, Behe, 208–209.
Amer. 816–817.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 264–277; also article named ‘60
Years Ago The Titanic Went Down’ (paper unknown) containing interview with young
Washington Dodge, account provided by Mike Poirier.
Amer. 817.
Amer. 277–278; Amer. 282; Br. 15016–15021; Br. 15034–15035. Pitman’s testimony at both
Inquiries gave several variations for Murdoch’s exact words here. This conversation is
reconstructed as best as the evidence allows from a comparison of Pitman’s testimony, but the
authors’ acknowledge that the exact quotations could have been slightly different.
Private account supplied by NMM/Mike Poirier Collection.
Amer. 1043.
Amer. 817; The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 7.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 264–277; also article named ‘60
Years Ago The Titanic Went Down’ (paper unknown) containing interview with young
Washington Dodge, account provided by Mike Poirier.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011, available at:
http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf.
Amer. 389–390.
Amer. 1030–1031.
American Medicine, May 1912. ‘My Experience in the Wreck of the Titanic’, by Henry
Frauenthal. Interestingly, Henry never made mention of his jumping into the lifeboat in his account.
It could be that he was so embarrassed by it that he decided to ‘gloss over’ that point.
Interestingly, according to his account, when his brother and he jumped in, he did not believe that
the ship was going to sink. Account available online at:
http://www.archive.org/stream/americanmedicine18newyuoft/americanmedicine18newyuoft_djvu.t
xt.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Coshocton Tribune, April 19, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 1044; April 24, 1912 account (unknown paper) supplied by Mike Poirier.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
Amer. 1044.
American Medicine, May 1912. ‘My Experience in the Wreck of the Titanic’, by Henry
Frauenthal. Account available online at:
http://www.archive.org/stream/americanmedicine18newyuoft/americanmedicine18newyuoft_djvu.t
xt.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Details are from Thomas Whiteley’s Titanic lecture, originally published in the Pawtucket, Rhode
Island newspaper.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier; additional information also supplied
by Mike Poirier.
Pawtucket Times, May 22, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. There is very little way of telling exactly
when Rhoda and her sons reached the deck, as her account is missing many details. Did she mean
that she saw Boat No. 5 lowered? Or was she speaking only of the second of the aft group of
lifeboats? Did she manage to make it all the way to the Boat Deck? Probably not at first, as she
instead referred to the ‘after-deck’; this was almost certainly a reference to the Aft Well Deck or
Poop Deck, where Third Class passengers were initially held back. Eventually, however, it seems
that she did make it to the Boat Deck, since she mentioned that there were women left behind on
the deck when the last lifeboat was lowered, but some men got into late boats without any protest.
She could only have been in a position to see these details if she had reached the Boat Deck.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935. For further details on the timing of this incident,
please see Endnote 136.
The Christian Science Journal, Vol. XXX, October 1912, No. 7.
Amer. 975. Lightoller mentioned this excursion to Murdoch’s cabin two separate times. The first
was made in his account published in The Christian Science Journal, October 1912. In that
account, he seems to have placed the timing just before Collapsible B was brought down from the
top of the Officers’ Quarters, very near the end of the disaster. He was also very careful to avoid
mentioning what the officers were going to get: guns and ammunition. In the second account
where he mentioned this trip (Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935), he seems to have
connected it with the lowering of Boat No. 6 and Peuchen’s boarding of that boat. However, even
here the present authors cannot be certain of when the trip took place, since he merely mentioned
the Peuchen story and then connected it to the trip to Murdoch’s cabin with the words: ‘It was
about this time…’
Lightoller gave conflicting evidence on the order of lowering for Boats Nos 6 and 8 (Br. 13841-
13842; Amer. 80). Lightoller also gave conflicting information on when this trip to Murdoch’s cabin
occurred (after Boat No. 6 or just before Collapsible B, depending on the account). Thus, the
current authors feel that his evidence on the timing of the event may not be entirely reliable.
To this, one has to add the testimony of Charles Stengel and the recollections of young
Washington Dodge, as stated in the narrative. It is clear that at Boat No. 5, the initial order was for
‘women and children’ or ‘women first’; possibly this was because Murdoch was not at No. 5
during much of the loading, and its loading was instead overseen by Third Officer Pitman (Bruce
Ismay and Thomas Andrews were reportedly nearby assisting in the loading, repeating the order,
as well). Murdoch customarily had no problem allowing women and children into the boats.
Another established fact is that Murdoch came along, ordered Pitman into the boat, and then
reportedly moved on to the next boat.
Based on the evidence presented, the Frauenthal brothers jumped in just as the lifeboat was
starting from the deck, with Fifth Officer Lowe helping to lower away. Their action prompted an
officer to call out that he was going to get his gun. However, this officer would not seem to have
been Lowe, since Lowe had already brought his gun from his cabin when he came on deck. It’s
possible that the officer could have threatened to get it simply to help keep order, but Stengel also
said that the officer who threatened to get the gun actually left the deck and returned shortly
thereafter. Lowe does not appear to have left the deck, but instead continued helping lower No. 5.
It would seem that Murdoch was most likely the officer at hand just as the Frauenthals jumped
in; it is also possible that Wilde may have crossed over to the starboard side to ask Murdoch where
the revolvers were, and could have been the officer in question. Interestingly, Lightoller thought
that when Wilde approached him, he had just come from the starboard side. Yet Pitman – in Boat
No. 5 at that point – specifically said that he did not remember seeing Wilde at any point after the
collision, (Amer. 296) although it is possible that he may have missed seeing him. In either case,
since Wilde didn’t know where the revolvers were, he approached Lightoller and asked for them to
be brought out.
Why would Murdoch or Wilde have had such a strong reaction to the Frauenthal brothers’
actions? While Murdoch clearly had no issue allowing men into the boats throughout that night, this
action – especially the injury to Mrs Stengel – may have crossed the line in his mind, or in the mind
of Wilde if he was at hand. The Frauenthals’ action also clearly hinted at the possibility of further –
and perhaps worse – trouble ahead.
Wilde told Lightoller that he had asked Murdoch about the location of the firearms, and that
Murdoch did not know where they were. Wilde seems to have been the only one to approach
Lightoller, but somehow Wilde and Lightoller met Murdoch and the Captain at Murdoch’s cabin.
Perhaps Murdoch suspected they were either somewhere in his cabin, or in Lightoller’s (which
adjoined his own) and while Wilde was fetching Lightoller, the First Officer set off to meet them in
the corridor outside their cabins to save time. Perhaps Lightoller had previously told Murdoch that
the weapons were in Murdoch’s cabin, but Murdoch did not know precisely where they were and
he didn’t want to waste time looking for them; indeed, Lightoller said that the locker he stuffed the
firearms case into was ‘of little use owing to its inaccessibility’. The present authors simply cannot
say for sure.
However, the absence of Murdoch, Wilde and Captain Smith anywhere near Boat No. 5 –
apparently while they were getting the ammunition – might very well explain why no one
interceded when Lowe erupted at Ismay, his employer, during the lowering of No. 5. This vacuum
of officer presence may even explain why Ismay felt the need to ‘step up’ and ‘take charge’ of
the lowering in the way he attempted to. It is also quite possible that this excursion, and the lack of
officer presence, would explain at least in part why there was a slightly longer gap between the
lowering of Boats Nos 3 and 5 and the gap which separated Nos 5 and 7.
Lightoller also clearly remembered that it was on his way back from this trip to fetch
ammunition that he encountered the Strauses, who so famously refused to board the next lifeboat
Lightoller lowered, No. 8. While it is not conclusive evidence of this event transpiring at the time
indicated in the narrative, that portion of Lightoller’s recollection sets the stage for that scene
rather nicely once the moment is moved to this point rather than after No. 6 lowered away.
Finally, Stengel recalled that the officer who left the deck to get his gun returned very shortly
thereafter. Lightoller recalled that the entire excursion ‘had not taken three minutes’. So even this
seems to fit well with the timing of Stengel’s recollections; it also indicates that the officer Stengel
was referring to was Murdoch, rather than Wilde, since the latter did not help load any of the
starboard boats except Collapsible C.
While the present authors leave open the possibility for this event having occurred later, perhaps
after the lowering of Boat No. 6, we feel that the evidence available at this time best supports this
placement in the timeline rather than a later one. We also feel that Murdoch emerges as the most
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
likely candidate for the officer who made the threat at No. 5. Should further evidence on the point
to the contrary come to light, however, some adjustment may be required down the road.
Amer. 597.
Beesley, Ch. 3. Beesley did not state how long he watched the crew work. He only gave the start
time and a description of events, and said that shortly thereafter he saw the first rocket launched.
It is thus obvious that the scene played out over a number of minutes, beginning at ‘about 12:20’.
Amer. 665.
Br. 3801–3804.
Br. 5570–5605.
Br. 3738–3794.
Br. 10957–11069.
Br. 15385–15393. Boxhall’s testimony is a bit disjointed, and there is some room for interpretation
on what he did and when. Boxhall recalled hearing about the ‘light’ while the boats were being
uncovered. It appears that he then went to the Bridge to investigate, but when he got there,
Captain Smith spotted him and ordered him to work out their position, subsequently ordering him to
take the position to the Marconi Room. It seems that Boxhall did not get a good look at the vessel
and did not attempt to signal her until after his trip to the Marconi Room with the revised position.
The present authors would like to thank Samuel Halpern and George Behe for taking the time to
give their input on Boxhall’s actions.
Apparently twelve distress rockets were kept on the Bridge, with another twenty-four kept astern.
These should technically be called ‘distress socket signals’, but as many referred to them as
‘rockets’ or ‘distress rockets’, they will be referred to as such throughout the running narrative.
Amer. 401.
Providence Daily Journal, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Discretions, pg. 167; second newspaper account provided by Mike Poirier. Some additional details,
but not quotes, from On Board, Behe, 280–283.
Between his two different written accounts, Gracie gave two distinct times and two separate
places where he was when the first rocket was fired. In his book (The Truth About the Titanic,
Ch. 2), he thought that the first rocket was fired while he was on the Boat Deck after Boat No. 6
had been lowered away. However, in his April 1912 written account (On Board, Behe 312) he
placed the firing of the first rocket with his placing of the ladies into the officers’ care on the
Promenade Deck. This shows how with different retellings, a single survivor’s story can change,
and independently could be used to support different arguments.
It is possible that Gracie missed the firing of the first rocket while he was below, and that the
rocket he saw from the Boat Deck after No. 6 left was not actually the first rocket. However, if
Gracie’s other account is correct, which seems equally likely, then it would seem that he did see
the first rocket go up at some point before leaving the Promenade Deck to go below. Exactly when
that occurred in the chain of incidents mentioned between his various accounts is impossible to say,
however.
The Truth About the Titanic, Chs 1–2. In the book, this account is broken up between two
completely disparate stretches of text, and Gracie even supplies two slightly different estimates of
how long after the collision this occurred. In the later segment, he reported that the order to load
the boats had come about three-quarters of an hour after the collision; the events which he
described after the order came through – the handing off of his ladies to Moody, the Straus
conversation, and the incident with the steward and the barrel could have taken 2–3 minutes. To
proceed into the companionway and down to C Deck might have taken another 2–3 minutes.
However when introducing this conversation Gracie said that it took place ‘within [Authors’
emphasis] three-quarters of an hour after the collision’. Worse yet, recall that in his other accounts
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
he allowed for it to have been longer than three-quarters of an hour after the collision when the
order to load the boats had come through. Obviously, there is some variance in Gracie’s estimates
of when certain events occurred.
Beesley, Ch. 3.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier; additional information also supplied
by Mike Poirier.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2; supplementary quotations from Amer. 989–998; see also On
Board, Behe.
Gracie’s cabin, C-51, was forward of the Forward Grand Staircase. Gracie was explicit,
however, in his statements that he walked the length of the Promenade Deck from aft to forward.
So unless he walked aft along the deck and then back forward on the deck, he must have come up
the Aft Grand Staircase. From Gracie’s cabin, if he wished to begin a systematic search of A
Deck for his table companions starting from the stern, then he would have needed to ascend from
a point far aft of the Forward First Class Grand Staircase; the Aft Grand Staircase is as good
candidate as any, although it should be treated as a hypothesis rather than a plain fact.
His account given in The Truth About the Titanic appears, in this instance, to be an expansion
of his April 1912 written account, and of his testimony at the Senate Inquiry. In neither of those
accounts did he mention the trip to his cabin to get blankets.
There is another example of the evolution of Gracie’s story, as told through different accounts.
In his Senate Inquiry testimony and his April 1912 written account, Gracie said that the fourth man
with Butt, Moore, and Millet was Arthur Ryerson, although he only ascertained this after the fact.
By the time he penned The Truth About the Titanic, however, he was only able to say that this
fourth man was ‘a stranger, whom I therefore cannot identify’. Perhaps when Gracie learned that
Ryerson’s family had not yet left when he came through the Smoking Room, he decided that his
earlier identification of the fourth man was incorrect. However, this cannot be stated with
certainty.
Amer. 801. Ray described seeing Moore leave the Smoking Room with the table companions he
had been sitting with there. While he doesn’t mention Major Butt or Frank Millet by name, it can
safely be assumed that these were the other individuals with Moore, as they were seen sitting
together in the Smoking Room by several witnesses. Ray saw the group in question leaving the
Smoking Room before he headed to his assigned boat, No. 9, and saw Boat No. 7 being lowered
away; this places the time of his sighting of Moore and his group sometime between 12:40 and
12:45 a.m.
William H. Taft papers, Library of Congress, On Board, Behe, 414–416.
On Board, Behe, 412–414; Thayer, 1940. Because of certain inconsistencies in Thayer’s
accounts, it’s nearly impossible to tell exactly when he allegedly saw Thomas Andrews. However,
it had to be after Andrews discovered that the ship was sinking. Andrews was sighted by others
heading up the Grand Staircase shortly before 12:25 a.m.; he may have bumped into the Thayers
then, even before he got to Captain Smith. However, based on other accounts, Andrews was
clearly not interested in stopping as he came up, and he ignored most other queries. More likely,
Andrews came across the Thayers in the location where the present authors have placed the
account, after coming back from his conversation with Captain Smith.
In his earliest account, Thayer said that they ‘walked around, looking at different places’, while
in his later account, Thayer said that they went to the Lounge. Perhaps they went to the Lounge
first, and then he and his father or all three walked around. This would make allowance for coming
across Thomas Andrews, who was known to be in the area of the Grand Staircase at about this
time.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
The Indianapolis Star, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier; Robertha Watt’s account can be
found in On Board, Behe 422–423. Robertha’s time estimate seemed to be just that: an estimate.
It seems likely that she was awakened at around 12:45, in the general area where we have placed
the account.
Amer. 597. Ward also mentioned Murdoch and Ismay, but he specifically mentioned them in
connection with the loading, not necessarily the preparation work. Since Ray said Murdoch wasn’t
there at that point, Murdoch must have arrived at that location after the preparation was finished.
Ray, a fellow member of the Victualling Department, would almost certainly have known McElroy
by sight, so this suggests that there may have been another deck officer present during the
preparation process.
Amer. 802–803. The estimated number of men working on Boat No. 9 comes from Ray’s
testimony. He said there were two sailors at each davit, (or ‘at the winding arrangement to wind
the boat up’, in his words) and ‘about a dozen other men’ nearby. Later, Senator Smith repeated
the number back in a question, but he misremembered the number which Ray had just given him,
which clearly totaled about sixteen, and which is included as such in the narrative.
The Titanic Commutator, #156. The testimony and evidence shows that Quartermaster Rowe’s
relief was due to show up at about 12:23 a.m., according to unadjusted ship’s time, or 12:00 a.m., if
all the clocks had been put back around midnight as intended. Rowe, in a letter to Ed Kamuda of
the Titanic Historical Society in 1963, said that his ‘watch should have ended at 12:22 but time
went by and no relief turned up’, a clear reference to unadjusted ship’s time.
According to research done by Sam Halpern, this clock change would most likely would have
taken place just before midnight, meaning that if the clocks went back at 11:59 p.m., for example,
then they would have gone back to 11:36 p.m., thus delaying the ringing of eight bells until midnight
adjusted time, or 12:23 a.m. unadjusted ship’s time. No matter what the procedure was intended to
be, the ship’s clocks were not officially put back due to the accident.
Bright had slept right through the collision, and was not awakened until one of his mates
returned to their quarters and awoke him, saying the ‘ship is going down by the head’. He
specifically said (Amer. 832) that he was late in relieving Rowe; just how late he was he did not
specify. He did say that once he arrived, that he and Rowe talked for ‘some moments’ before
spotting a lifeboat in the water. Depending on how one interprets ‘some moments’, this could leave
Bright’s arrival on the aft Docking Bridge anywhere from just a few minutes late (i.e., Bright’s
verbal emphasis was ‘some moments’, as in quite a while between his arrival and spotting the
boat), or that he had just shown up when this transpired (i.e., Bright’s statement was a flat ‘some
moments’, as in not a long period). Rowe’s comments about time going by and his relief not
showing up, as well as Bright’s mate informing him the ship was going down by the head when he
was awakened, tend to indicate the Bright was more than just a few minutes late in arriving at the
stern.
The evidence from Rowe and Bright do not in any way preclude a 12:40 a.m. departure of Boat
No. 7, and in fact, the sum total of the evidence at hand (from both these men and others) supports
this conclusion.
Amer. 521–523; Br. 17603–17607.
Amer. 832.
Rowe’s testimony in 1912 and his later accounts given during the 1960s vary wildly on different
points. These variances include what events he saw at what point, and the exact timing of various
events. (For specifics, see ‘The Distress Rockets and Quartermaster Rowe’, and ‘The Launch
Time of the First Lifeboat’ in the previously mentioned URL:
http://www.wormstedt.com/Titanic/lifeboats/lifeboats.htm) However, the timing of Rowe’s next
164.
action is fixed clearly by Boxhall’s testimony about receiving a phone call just after he was
returning the firing lanyard to the Wheelhouse, just after launching the first rocket.
Br. 15593. Rowe’s testimony is contradictory regarding the timing of some events. In June 1963,
51 years after the disaster, when speaking to J. Powell of the Mercantile Marine Services, Rowe
said that he did not set his watch back the 23 minutes to keep pace with the expected time change
around midnight. (The letter from Powell citing this can be seen in Senan Molony’s article, ‘Early
Boats, Early Rockets’.) However, there are a couple of things that contradict that statement.
First, Rowe put the timing of seeing the first boat in the water at 12:25 a.m., (Amer. 519) which
flies in the face of an overwhelming preponderance of evidence that the lifeboats were launched
later, at the times indicated in this text. (In 1963, he also said that this same event happened at 1:00
a.m., and also at 12:30 a.m., contradicting his other accounts.) However, if Rowe set his watch
back – or if he didn’t physically set his watch back, but realized that the clocks were due to be set
back around midnight and was thinking in adjusted time – then adding 23 minutes to his 12:25 a.m.
estimate brings the timing of seeing the first boat in the water to 12:48 a.m. This is much closer to
the timing of this event as supported by the majority of the evidence. Not coincidentally, this timing
is right after the time that the first rocket was sent up, around 12:47 a.m. (Read the section of the
present authors’ aforementioned lifeboat launch article entitled ‘The Distress Rockets and
Quartermaster Rowe’, which delves into this topic in more detail, and which is available at
http://www.wormstedt.com/Titanic/lifeboats/lifeboats.htm).
It is also important to note that Rowe testified that it was 1:25 a.m. when he left the Bridge to
get in Collapsible C; in his next breath, however, he said that the ship sank ‘Twenty minutes, I
believe’ after he left (Amer. 524). Since the ship sank at 2:20 a.m., his 1:25 a.m. time is clearly
mistaken; even if one used the British Inquiry launch time of 1:40 a.m. for that boat, and concluded
that Rowe spent 15 minutes working there before the boat was lowered away, his statements
would place the ship’s sinking at 2:00, not 2:20. Additionally, Rowe said that when Collapsible C
began lowering, the forward Well Deck was awash, but that in the 5 minutes it took the boat to
lower to the sea, the Well Deck had submerged. Quartermaster Bright testified that the Forecastle
was just going under when Collapsible D lowered away (Amer. 837). In order for the Well Deck
to submerge and not just be awash, the physical design of the ship and angles she assumed while
sinking dictate that the Forecastle head would also have to have gone under, which was just
happening as Collapsible D lowered away at 2:05 a.m.; this is strong evidence that Collapsibles C
and D left within minutes of each other, not 25 minutes or more apart. This clearly contradicts
Rowe’s 1:25 a.m. time for leaving the Bridge, but supports his statement that the collapsible left
around 20 minutes before the ship sank.
Another possibility is that Rowe’s later memory of not setting his watch back was correct, but
that he just did not have a terrific grasp of overall timing. However, while being interviewed by J.
Powell on March 2, 1963, Rowe gave some completely contradictory information: he said that the
first lifeboat launched was No. 13, at 1:00 a.m., and that it was the second from aft. No. 13 was
the second boat from aft on the starboard side, but it was one of the last two boats lowered on that
side of the ship. When asked if he had estimated the 1:00 a.m. time, or if he had looked at his
watch, Rowe responded that he ‘did not think of or about a watch’ (authors’ italics). Rowe also
estimated in the same interview that he went to the Bridge at 12:25, and that it took him 10 minutes
to get there. He also said that he did not know where Boxhall was during the firing of the rockets,
indeed that he hadn’t seen him after the first two rockets went up. (The authors thank Paul Lee
and Samuel Halpern for providing access to this report.) This blatantly contradicts Boxhall’s 1912
testimony about overseeing the firing of the distress rockets until being ordered into Boat No. 2.
Other letters, written to Ed Kamuda during 1963 and 1968 and reprinted in The Titanic
Commutator, No. 156, also seem at variance with what Rowe wrote to Mr Powell, even though
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
they were written within months of each other. For example, he claimed to Powell on June 11,
1963 that rockets were fired while he was still on the Poop Deck; he told Ed Kamuda on
September 3, 1963 that he fired the first rocket, i.e., that none were fired before he reached the
Bridge.
Obviously, by 1963, Rowe’s memories were fading, vague and contradictory. Thus, his
statements regarding the timing of events cannot be relied upon independent of other data. The
majority of evidence points to a later launching of the first lifeboat, No. 7, around 12:40 a.m., and
that the first rocket went up between the lowering of Boats Nos 5 and 3, after No. 7 was away.
The fine points of this are endlessly debatable, but this is a logical conclusion based on numerous
lines of evidence.
Bright clearly testified that he and Rowe each took a box of rockets to the Bridge; oddly, Rowe
never alluded to Bright’s participation in bringing the rockets up to the Bridge, or to his subsequent
assistance in firing them.
Amer. 239.
Amer. 934.
Rochester Democrat & Chronicle, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 803. Ray’s statement about going up the Grand Staircase at a ‘leisurely pace’ may indicate
that he stopped during the ascent to care for other tasks; if he were to go directly down the stairs
to E Deck, and then back up to the Boat Deck via the forward Grand Staircase, this may have
taken less than ten minutes.
From following the indicated water levels, it would seem that Ray saw the water on E Deck at
about 12:50 a.m. However, Ray’s next detail was meeting up with a passenger named Rothschild,
who had just sent his wife away in Boat No. 6, which began lowering away at 1:10 a.m. At the
early end of his account, he had been at No. 9 at about the time that No. 7 was launched, or 12:40
a.m. If No. 7 had been lowered away any earlier, then this would only tend to exacerbate the gap
in his story. It would seem that Ray either stayed below for a few minutes on E Deck aft, or
watched the flooding forward briefly, or handled a number of other tasks while below before
bumping into Rothschild.
Br. 11069–11071.
Even more startling is the fact that the approximate times that they saw these rockets correspond
very well with the timing of the rocket-firing sequence aboard the Titanic, once you account for
the 12-minute difference in the two vessels’ clocks. Second Officer Stone on the Californian saw
a rocket (not necessarily the first) at about 12:45 a.m. Californian time, or about 12:57 a.m.
Titanic time, and saw another one shortly afterward. (Affidavit of Herbert Stone, written for
Captain Lord on April 18, 1912, while the Californian was still at sea. Stone’s full affidavit and a
wealth of other information on this topic are available on Dave Billnitzer’s website ‘The Titanic
and the Mystery Ship’ at the following URL: http://home.earthlink.net/~dnitzer/Frameset.html)
Stone had gone to the speaking tube at 12:35 a.m. Californian time, after Captain Lord whistled
up to ask if the steamer on the horizon had moved. 12:35 a.m. Californian time corresponds to
12:47 a.m. Titanic time, precisely the time that the first rocket was sent up, which means that
Stone likely missed seeing the initial rocket.
Third Officer Groves thought that he had stayed on the Bridge until approximately 12:10–12:15
a.m. (12:22–12:27 a.m. Titanic time), and he did not see any rockets during that period (Br. 8493–
8494). There was no clock on the upper Bridge of the Californian, but the officers would most
likely have had a pretty good idea of what time it was from their own timepieces adjusted to ship’s
time.
Apprentice James Gibson had a good look at the ship at ‘about a quarter or twenty past
twelve’, or 12:27–12:32 a.m. Titanic time, and thought he saw her signaling via Morse lamp, but
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
could not discern any message (Br. 7708–7718). He had not seen any rockets at that point. Gibson
left the Bridge at 12:25 a.m., or 12:37 a.m. Titanic time, still not having seen any rockets. (Note: he
also affirmed that he left the Bridge at twenty-five to one, but that was in response to a question;
both times he spoke of his own accord, he said he left the Bridge at 12:25 a.m.) When he came
back on the Bridge at 12:55 a.m., or 1:07 a.m. Titanic time, Second Officer Stone told him that he
had seen five rockets. They saw another three together. Stone said that the last rocket was fired at
‘about 1:40 a.m.’, or 1:52 a.m. Titanic time. This is in line with Fourth Officer Boxhall’s estimate
of being sent to Boat No. 2 about half an hour before the ship sank, and with Quartermaster Rowe
being ordered to stop firing rockets and being sent to Collapsible C by Captain Smith in time to
finish loading it and leave about 20 minutes before the ship sank.
According to Apprentice Gibson, at 2:05 a.m., or 2:17 a.m. Titanic time, the lights of the
steamer he and Stone were watching disappeared. (Br. 7789) This is the very time when the
Titanic’s lights went out, just prior to her breaking in half and sinking at 2:20 a.m. (See Sam
Halpern’s article ‘Rockets, Lifeboats, and Time Changes’, which delves into this topic in detail, and
which is available at the following URL: http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/rockets-lifeboatsand-timechanges.html#_ednref43)
Note Sam Halpern’s article, ‘A Captain Accused’, available via this URL:
http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/item/4622/)
For further information, please see Appendix R: The Californian Affair.
New York Tribune, April 20, 1912; The Cincinnati Enquirer, April 20, 1912.
Amer. 112; Amer. 827; The Sinking of the Titanic, Ch. 17, by Jay Henry Mowbray, 1912.
Bedroom Steward Alfred Crawford said that Mrs Straus handed her maid a rug at No. 8. He was
mistaken. Ellen Bird said that Mrs Straus had actually given her the fur coat she was wearing.
After the sinking, Ellen tried to return the fur coat to Mrs Straus’ family, but they refused, saying
she should keep it, since Ida had given it to her. The refusal of Mrs Straus to leave her husband
has become a legendary part of the sinking. Crawford’s testimony on the subject seems credible
since it was given at the Senate Inquiry, as does Ellen Bird’s, since she was Ida Straus’ maid, and
was in a position to see the couple part. It is worth noting that many more people claimed to have
seen the old married couple refuse to part than could have witnessed it in reality.
In his 1935 book, Second Officer Lightoller claimed that after Boat No. 6 left, and after coming
back from retrieving the firearms from First Officer Murdoch’s cabin, he saw Mr and Mrs Straus
up against the deck house, chatting cheerily, and that he stopped and asked Mrs Straus if he could
help her to a boat. She said, ‘I think I’ll stay here for the present.’ Mr Straus asked, ‘Why don’t
you go along with him dear?’ She declined, saying, ‘No, not yet.’ To some, this may suggest that
No. 8 left after No. 6, since Crawford and Bird both say Mrs Straus refused to leave her husband
at the former boat, and Lightoller describes her declining his assistance sometime after No. 6 left.
However, Lightoller must be describing a later separate incident if it even happened at all (there
are a few instances where he adds details to his 1935 account which contradict what he said in
1912, such as alleged interactions with Jack Phillips on Collapsible B, claiming to have seen the
engineers up on deck, when he denied seeing them in 1912, etc.). This is particularly true since
Crawford and Bird said the Strauses refused to part alongside No. 8, which Ellen Bird called ‘the
first boat’. Lightoller said he saw Mr and Mrs Straus leaning up against the deck house, and his
version of what they said does not match what Crawford and Bird describe. Furthermore,
Crawford says that Captain Smith and Chief Officer Wilde were assisting at No. 8 when the
couple refused to part, and does not mention Lightoller being present. In his own accounts,
Lightoller does not claim to have been involved in the loading of No. 8 at that point.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912; Philadelphia Evening Bulletin date unknown; both accounts are contained in On Board,
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
Behe.
Amer. 571. Jones said that he knew Chief Officer Wilde, but was unable to name this ‘first
officer’. Since photographic evidence indicates that Lightoller had not had the opportunity to
change his uniform to that of a Second Officer’s ranking prior to the voyage, Jones probably just
mistook Lightoller for the First Officer.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Mrs Swift placed the time of
the collision at 11:45 p.m., and the departure of her lifeboat as ‘between 1 and 1:30 o’clock’. She
also mentioned that hers was ‘the second boat that left the vessel. I might have gone in the first,
but I did not believe that there was any real danger, and I hesitated to get down in an open boat at
1 o’clock in the morning when our own ship seemed to be perfectly safe’.
This could be taken to mean that she saw Boat No. 6 leave before No. 8; or it could be a
reference to the lowering of Boat No. 4 to the Promenade Deck. Since she said that she had just
come over from the starboard side when she joined the ladies waiting for Boat No. 8, it is also
possible that she saw one of the boats on the starboard side leave before she crossed over to port.
The New York Herald, April 19, 20, 1912.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier; additional information also provided
by Mike Poirier.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
New York Times, April 28, 1912. In his press account, Bride seems to have confused the timing of
his joke about the SOS. Bride says that he made this joke ‘five minutes’ after Phillips began
sending CQD, which was at 12:27 a.m. Titanic time. However, an SOS was not heard by other
ships – or at least, was not documented as having been received by anyone – until 10:55 a.m. New
York Time, or 12:57 a.m. Titanic time. At 10:55 NYT, this SOS call was recorded in the Mount
Temple’s PV as ‘MGY calling SOS’, and ‘Titanic’ calls ‘Olympic’ SOS, as recorded in Lord
Mersey’s final report. (http://www.titanicinquiry.org/BOTInq/BOTReport/BOTRepWireless.php;
note the British Inquiry’s mistaken belief that Titanic time was 1 hour and 50 minutes ahead of
New York Time, rather than 2 hours and 2 minutes.)
New York Times, August 11, 1909.
The article, titled ‘“S.O.S.” – The Ambulance Call of the Seas’, (New York Times, February 13,
1910) details the origin of SOS as a distress call, and several instances of its uses in the years prior
to the Titanic disaster.
Br. 2006–2023.
Br. 2024–2037.
Beesley, Ch. 3. In his book, Beesley thought that he saw this cellist at ‘about 12.40’. Beesley
seems to have been roughly estimating this, as he prefaced the statement with ‘this must have
been’. He clearly stated that he saw a number of things begin at about the same time, including
work on Boat No. 9 and the boats just astern. Frustratingly, Beesley does not give any estimates of
time (other than the collision) in his Toronto World account of April 19, 1912; nor does he mention
this sighting of the cellist or the incident about the ladies at the rail asking to be let up to First Class
regions.
While Beesley’s account makes it sound as if all of the boats on the starboard aft quarter were
lowered to A Deck and loaded from there, not all the evidence agrees with these statements; for
example No. 9 was loaded from the Boat Deck. So at least part of Beesley’s statement would be
incorrect if he was applying it to all of the boats. Most likely, he was simply compressing his
impressions of efforts which took some time – beginning at No. 9 – into a single statement. He
stayed there on the deck, watching the events as they continued to unfold, over a period of time.
Amer. 597.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
Amer. 335. This officer was likely Chief Officer Wilde, who was at the forward port boats at the
time, and who assisted in the loading of Boat No. 8. Additionally, Chief Officer Wilde was
described as a big man by Second Officer Lightoller. Peuchen’s testimony makes it clear that he
knew Captain Smith and Second Officer Lightoller, so Wilde is the most likely candidate, since
Murdoch was occupied on the opposite side of the ship. In a letter to Colonel Archibald Gracie,
First Class passenger Helen Churchill Candee also mentions this incident, and praised the conduct
of the firemen for not protesting when the officer forced them to leave.
Br. 13852.
Amer. 314. Pitman said: ‘She was blowing off steam for three-quarters of an hour, I think…” By
nearly all accounts, this racket began very shortly after the ship came to its final stop around 11:46
p.m., after she briefly steamed ‘slow ahead’ following the collision. Colonel Gracie testified that
the steam began blowing off just after he awoke, at midnight by his watch. (Amer. 989) However,
while Gracie stated that the collision happened at midnight according to his watch, in his book he
went on to specify: ‘Correct ship’s time would make it about 11.45.’ (The Truth About the Titanic,
Ch. 2) This indicates that the time his watch was keeping was not correct ship’s time, and possibly
that he was not awakened by the collision as he believed he had been, but a few minutes later.
Placing the start of the steam venting so close to the collision, rather than at midnight, is much
more in keeping with the bulk of the evidence on the matter. Remember that the steam-generating
plant was operating at high pressure prior to the collision; once the engines were stopped, the
safeties would have popped quite quickly.
If the steam began venting at 11:46 p.m., then by Pitman’s estimate, it would have ceased
sometime around 12:31 a.m. – precisely when the earliest boats were being prepared and loaded,
as mentioned in the narrative. In his book, Lightoller states that the steam was still venting when
Captain Smith gave the order to begin loading women and children into the boats. Lightoller
recalled that following this order, he was helping lower ‘the first boat’ – which had apparently
already been swung out, level with the Boat Deck in preparation for loading – when the steam
venting stopped. (Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935)
The steam evidence does not fit the first boats lowering away as early as 12:25 a.m. Why? In
order for the boats to have started lowering that early on, prep work would have to have been
completed by about midnight, and the order to load them given around that time, in order to leave
enough time for them to be loaded and start off at that time. Yet, this is wholly incompatible with
the evidence Lightoller and Pitman gave on how long the steam vented and what stage work on
the boats had reached when it stopped. However, this same evidence is exactly in line with a 12:25
a.m. time for the order to begin loading the lifeboats, and with a 12:40 a.m. departure time for the
first lifeboat.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Ibid.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
On Board, Behe, 148–150.
Amer. 570.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
On Board, Behe, 148–150.
Mrs Futrelle’s story is compiled from the two accounts she gave (Seattle Daily Times, April 22/23,
1912; and Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, date unknown; both accounts are contained in On
Board, Behe.).
New York Tribune, April 20, 1912.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011, at
http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
New York Tribune, April 19, 1912.
Newport Herald, May 28, 29, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe, 217–226. Berthe
Antonine Mayné booked her trip on Titanic using the name Madame de Villiers.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou. There is simply no way of
telling how long Fitzpatrick slept after the collision. However, he did offer a clue in that he recalled
the ship listing to port when he got on deck, and that he described events most likely relating to the
lowering of Boat No. 14.
Amer. 239.
Indiscretions, 171. It is clear that the officer she asked was Murdoch.
On Board, Behe, 282.
Amer. 971–972.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Amer. 80; Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935. Lightoller was not exaggerating when he
claimed that there was a shortage of seamen to assist in the loading of the boats from this point on.
See Appendix I: The Loss of Deck Crew on the Titanic Over Time, for further details.
Most lifeboat launch timelines, including the timeline constructed during the British Inquiry, indicate
that Boat No. 6 left before No. 8. However, there is substantial evidence that Boat No. 8 was
lowered away first. Colonel Archibald Gracie, a Titanic survivor, first reached this conclusion after
examining the evidence and talking to eyewitnesses while writing his book, The Truth About the
Titanic, published in 1913. The independent research of Titanic historian Paul Quinn and Mike
Findlay also supports this same conclusion. An exhaustive examination of the eyewitness evidence,
which supports No. 8 leaving first, is presented in the previously mentioned article, ‘Titanic: The
Lifeboat Launching Sequence Re-examined’, by: Bill Wormstedt, Tad Fitch, and George Behe,
with contributions by Sam Halpern and J. Kent Layton.
(http://www.wormstedt.com/Titanic/lifeboats/lifeboats.htm)
Br. 1375–1377.
Br. 15233–15239.
Br. 1172–1175; Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935; Amer. 336. The exact dialogue has
been reconstructed from these three sources. Lightoller’s later recollection did not include
Peuchen’s early comments that Captain Smith was present, or his suggestion; however, there is no
reason to think that this was anything other than an omission in an account given years after the
sinking. Thus the present authors have pieced the account together to form a more complete
whole. Some variations in the exact dialogue should be allowed for.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Amer. 452; Amer. 336.
Newport Herald, May 28, 29, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe, 217–226.
Br. 2006–2036, Br. 2053–2075; Br. 2348–2352. This catastrophic flooding of Boiler Room No. 5
has led some to speculate that a coal fire in that same starboard bunker, just aft of the primary
bulkhead between Boiler Rooms Nos 6 and 5, weakened the bulkhead to the point where it gave
way under the weight of the water which had flooded Boiler Room No. 6. This bunker fire had
burned ever since the ship had left Belfast, but was by no means uncommon for the period. A
thorough forensic analysis of the incident by Dr Tim Foecke and Dr Jennifer Hooper McCarty was
published in their book, What Really Sank the Titanic? (Citadel Press, 2008) The conclusion that
they reached is that the coal bunker fire had little or no effect on the sinking. Indeed, it is most
likely that this rush of water came when the lighter-weight coal bunker’s bulkheads (not the
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
primary bulkhead between BR’s 6 and 5) gave way. The timing of the event is fixed with relative
certainty by the evidence of Barrett; he said that he saw the rush of water around 1:10 a.m. (Br.
2348–2349.)
At first, it may seem impossible for Barrett to have escaped from Boiler Room No. 5 up to
Scotland Road on E Deck some 25 minutes after Steward Wheat saw water flooding down to F
Deck from E Deck by the Turkish Baths. By that point, wouldn’t Barrett’s escape have been cut
off? If one goes back and considers the nature of the flooding on F Deck, the water had
apparently come up the starboard passageway at the time, but Scotland Road was noted to be
perfectly dry. As more water came up the starboard side, it would have flooded the space by the
Turkish Baths before spreading over to the port side – particularly as the ship was then listing over
to starboard. However, at this point the ship’s list to starboard was beginning to ease, and would
eventually shift over to port. Only as that list eased – perhaps due to the complete flooding of F
Deck in the vicinity of the Turkish Baths as water filled the space from E Deck – would water
have crept up Scotland Road on the port side, where the escape door from Boiler Room No. 5 was
located.
As the water crept up Scotland Road on the port side of E Deck, it would have started to pour
down the staircase to F Deck (the stairs were located on the port side of Scotland Road, by the
Steward’s Lavatory, and went down to the Linen Drying Room on F Deck). As it descended the
stairs, it would have begun to flood those sections before making its way into the Swimming Bath
on the starboard side. Initial flooding on the port side of this compartment – above No. 5 Boiler
Room – might have accounted for the first signs of the ship starting to list over to the port side.
Palladium Times, September 11, 1985. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2; supplementary quotations from Amer. 989–998; see also On
Board, Behe, 311–314.
It is wholly impossible to be certain of all Gracie’s movements. It can be determined that he
worked at the lifeboats on the forward port side. He remembered helping to load ‘about two boats,
at least two boats’ from the Boat Deck in addition to No. 4, but he also does not mention which
ones. It can safely be assumed that he helped to load Boat No. 2, just before No. 4. He is also
clear that he helped to get Boat D into lowering position after working at No. 4. This would fulfill
his recollection of working at two boats on the Boat Deck. He was not present during the loading
of Boat No. 6, however, because he missed the boarding of his acquaintances Helen Candee and
Major Peuchen in that boat; his recollections of Peuchen’s boarding that boat were also drawn
from Lightoller’s testimony, not his own memories.
Gracie himself alluded to a gap in his recollections while working on the boats. He said that his
‘energies were so concentrated upon this work of loading the boats at this quarter that lapse of
time, sense of sight and sense of hearing recorded no impressions during this interval until the last
boat was loaded’. (The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2)
The next event which Gracie describes in any detail is the loading of Boat No. 4; although it
seems clear that he was involved in the loading of other boats forward on the port side, which ones
they were the present authors can not say with certainty.
Amer. 803.
Br. 11454; Newark Star, April 19, 1912.
Br. 5011; Br. 6453. It is likely that Murdoch or Lowe gave this order, but the officer’s name is not
given in the testimony.
Indiscretions, 171–172.
Ibid.
Br. 11490–11495.
Beesley, Ch. 3.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
Amer. 406, Br. 15828–15830.
Amer. 675; Amer. 604.
Br. 383–386.
Br. 15837.
Amer. 406. When explaining where he thought Lightoller went, Lowe said that he ‘must have gone
to the second boat forward’. Admittedly, this could be a reference to Boat No. 2, or to the ‘second
boat’ from the front, No. 4, which was still in limbo. Most likely, however, it was a reference to the
‘second boat’ from the front of the after-port quarter of boats: No. 12, where Lightoller was
spotted shortly thereafter. Because of other evidence that Lightoller proceeded directly to Boat
No. 12, the present authors have included that conclusion in the narrative.
Is this another instance of Second Officer Lightoller being mistaken for First Officer Murdoch due
to their uniform insignia? Mrs Collyer referred to Murdoch a number of times in her account, so it
does not seem likely; yet the possibility cannot be entirely ruled out. She does not say how she
identified the officer as Murdoch, but she took the trouble to spell his name correctly in her
account; perhaps they had met at some point during the crossing as she claimed in her account, or
even after the collision. If Murdoch did stop by at No. 14 briefly, then this would explain his delay
in reaching Boat No. 9 and starting the loading process there. Perhaps he went to that quarter of
the deck briefly to make sure that the crowd was well under control? It is simply impossible to say.
Washington Post Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 26, 1912. This full account is available in On
Board, Behe, 246–254.
Amer. 628.
Titanic Survivor, Ch. 21. Jessop, who disguised most of the Titanic crewmember and passenger
names in her memoirs, referred to this officer as ‘Mason’, but it is obvious she was referring to
Moody, who was the officer in charge of loading No. 16.
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
The Bridgewater Mercury, May 1912. Although Threlfall was non-specific about his location at
the time, he did mention that he was engaged in drawing the fires. This most likely places him in
Boiler Room No. 3 or Boiler Room No. 4. The fires in Boiler Room No. 2 were most likely needed
to continue supplying steam to the Emergency Dynamos on D Deck until the end. (Br. 20918)
Br. 3806–3828. Dillon initially testified that this order was given at ‘An hour and 40 minutes’ after
the collision, or 1:20 a.m. (Br. 3810–3811); then he agreed with the examiner that this would have
made it ‘a quarter-past one’. (Br. 3812–3813) Later in his testimony, Dillon again stated that it was
‘About an hour and forty minutes’ after the collision, or at 1:20 a.m., when he came back into the
Engine Room from Boiler Room No. 4 (Br. 3913). Both times he spoke of his own volition, rather
than simply agreeing with an examiner’s statement, he indicated a time of ‘an hour and forty
minutes’ after the collision, or 1:20 a.m. This is in agreement with the times given by Scott and
Threlfall.
Br. 4252–4267. The flooding in Boiler Room No. 4 has been a source of persistent speculation
over the years. It seems to have started too early to have been part of the ‘bulkhead-topping’
sequence. Working from this, some have suggested that it was bottom damage, or in other words,
evidence of a grounding. However, this kind of significant damage would have produced far
greater quantities of water before 1:20 a.m.
At about 12:10 a.m. (an estimated time built on his testimony), Trimmer Thomas Dillon noticed
a very small quantity of water coming up through the stokehold plates of Boiler Room No. 4, long
before Boiler Room No. 5 experienced its disastrous flooding at around 1:10 a.m. According to
research done by Samuel Halpern, it is possible that this was evidence of a single strake of plating
between two frames having popped open during the collision. For further details, please see his
article at the following URL: http://www.titanicology.com/FloodingInBR4.html.
241.
242.
243.
244.
245.
246.
247.
248.
249.
250.
251.
252.
253.
254.
255.
256.
Another possibility was that by about 1:20 a.m. – when Trimmer George Cavell eventually
abandoned his post – the water descending into the Turkish baths, (seen by Steward Wheat at
about 12:45 a.m., and noticed by F. Dent Ray near the E Deck level of the First Class Grand
Staircase at about the same time) had found its way back down into the compartment as well.
Br. 5838–5839.
Br. 5723–5727.
Scott had no idea what portion of the ship he was in, just that it was only a little way aft of the
Engine Room exit which he had come up through. When he got his lifebelt, Scott believed he was
in Third Class deck spaces, and that he ascended to the deck via the Third Class stairs. However,
the Third Class stairs were quite a distance aft. It seems quite possible that Scott – as he was in
such an unfamiliar portion of the ship – might actually have been in Second Class areas of the ship,
and that he proceeded up to the Boat Deck via the Second Class stairs. However, it is nearly
impossible to say for certain where these lifebelts were. Only one thing is sure: Scott said that it
took him about ‘five minutes’ to get up to the Boat Deck. (Br. 5775)
Ray specifically said ‘A deck’. However, he also said that it was ‘the open deck’, also. From other
sources, it seems that most – if not all – of the loading of Boat No. 9 took place from the Boat
Deck. Here we have another probable example of deck-letter confusion.
Amer. 803.
Amer. 597.
Amer. 635–636.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Account provided by Mike Poirier.
The Ilford Graphic, May 10, 1912. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 323–328. While
Lightoller was portrayed as shouting this order in the 1997 film Titanic, it seems most reasonable
to conclude that it was Fifth Officer Lowe who gave this shout. Greaser Scott also claimed to
have heard an officer threaten any man that ‘I will shoot him like a dog’, if they tried to board No.
14 (Br. 5657), although there are significant problems with his testimony, and despite his claim to
have witnessed this himself, Scott may have been repeating information related to him by another
witness. See the subsection titled ‘The Stern Port Boats’ in the aforementioned article ‘Titanic:
The Lifeboat Launch Sequence Re-Examined’, by Bill Wormstedt, Tad Fitch, and George Behe, at
the following URL for additional details relating to Scott:
http://www.wormstedt.com/Titanic/lifeboats/lifeboats.htm
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou. In both of the above
accounts, Fitzpatrick said that the man who tried to jump into the boat was shot dead. Other
portions of his accounts suggest clearly that this was Boat No. 14. Perhaps with all of the gunfire
surrounding the launch of this boat, Fitzpatrick only thought he saw a man shot. Or perhaps the
reporter was ‘jazzing the story up’ a bit. It is nearly impossible to say.
Amer. 1109.
Br. 5640, 5707, 5841; Br. 3810–3811; The Bridgewater Mercury, May 1912.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Amer. 615; Br. 387–393.
Amer. 417–419; Br. 15840–15851. Lowe’s description of these men as ‘Italians’ and ‘Latin
people’ met with a lot of criticism, particularly from Cusani, the Royal Ambassador of Italy. On
April 30, 1912, Lowe made a statement in his presence apologizing for his statements, saying that
he canceled the word ‘Italian’, and instead substituted the words ‘immigrants belonging to Latin
257.
258.
259.
260.
261.
races’. He also stated that he ‘did not intend to cast any reflection on the Italian nation’. This
statement was entered into the inquiry evidence. While offensive by today’s standards, Lowe’s
statements were not unusual, and tend to reveal a common prejudice of the day. Even a quick
perusal of Titanic survivors’ statements reveals that many automatically assumed passengers who
were acting unruly during the sinking were from steerage, and that they were ‘Latin peoples’,
‘Italians’, or ‘dagoes’.
Here we have a perfect illustration of the danger of relying on survivors’ timing estimates as
opposed to following the level of flooding and the speed with which the ship was settling. When he
came out on deck, Theissinger said that ‘it was 12:30 … and we saw the vessel was doomed’.
However, he was also very clear not only about the three boats he saw in the water, but also about
how far up the water had come – ‘only thirty feet below the topmost deck’. Such a timing estimate
is thoroughly unconvincing, as there is no way that he could have believed that the water would be
that high at 12:30 a.m. Nor would it make sense that he could conclude from the water level that
‘the vessel was doomed’ at 12:30.
If one starts with the water level, however, it becomes apparent that Theissinger made this
observation well after 12:30 a.m. It wasn’t until nearly 1:30 a.m. that the water level had
approached that height along the ship’s sides. Also interesting is that Theissinger did not say where
he got the time from… a personal time piece? If so, had he assumed that the clocks had been
adjusted at midnight, as was the usual custom? That could help to explain the difference. Was he
just estimating the time? Possibly. Because of his clear indication of the ship’s orientation at the
time he arrived on deck, the present authors have placed his arrival there a little later than he
believed that it was.
Theissinger said that: ‘Boats 1, 2 and 3 were already in the water.’ However, Boat No. 2 was on
the port side, while Boats 1 and 3 were on the starboard side. It is possible that he emerged on the
port Boat Deck, and not the starboard, or that he was on both sides and noticed three boats gone in
total. There is simply too much detail missing from this portion of his account to make any
conclusion with certainty. Wherever he was when they reached the deck, he eventually headed aft
and found his way to the starboard side.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (account provided
by Mike Poirier). It is possible that the events Theissinger subsequently witnessed – with women
and children filling boats and men being ‘told off’ – happened at No. 11, but his wording leaves
room for some doubts on the point. The present authors will therefore resume his account at Boat
No. 15, his next definite location and sighting.
Amer. 803. Saloon Steward F. Dent Ray knew Murdoch by sight, but did not know any of the
other officers. He was very clear in the testimony cited that when No. 9 was swung out earlier in
the night, Murdoch was not the officer in charge there. Ray, who was assigned to No. 9, said that
when his boat was being swung out, he went to the rail and ‘saw the first boat leaving the ship on
the starboard side’, which indicates the timing he was speaking of. ‘Feeling rather cold’, Ray had
returned to his room for his overcoat at that time. This suggests that Murdoch worked at No. 9
only later in the sinking, once it actually began loading.
Br. 395; Amer. 657. Able Bodied Seaman Joseph Scarrott saw George McGough standing by the
aft falls as No. 14 lowered away, and Boatswain’s Mate Albert Haines testified that he left the
ship in No. 9, which is backed up by other evidence. All three men knew each other well, having
served in the same watch deck crew under Fourth Officer Boxhall. This evidence is important to
the understanding of the timing of lowering of the aft port boats in relation to the aft starboard
ones. This essentially proves that No. 14 left the ship prior to No. 9, contrary to the lifeboat timings
published by the British Inquiry. See ‘Titanic: The Lifeboat Launching Sequence Re-Examined’,
262.
263.
264.
265.
266.
267.
268.
269.
270.
271.
272.
273.
274.
275.
276.
277.
278.
by Bill Wormstedt, Tad Fitch and George Behe, with contributions by Sam Halpern and J. Kent
Layton at the previously mentioned URL: http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/lifeboats/lifeboats.htm
Br. 13187–13189.
Amer. 804.
Amer. 545.
Palladium Times, September 11, 1985. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Rochester Democrat & Chronicle, April 21, 1912 and April 15, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier. The
1912 article mentions the gunfire and people being shot, while the 1931 article does not. However,
the 1912 account was provided to reporters by Miss Bentham’s brother, and not first-hand. It is
possible that Miss Bentham was referring to the gunfire at Boat No. 14 while it was being lowered
nearby, and that in the second-hand retelling it somehow was blown out of proportion.
What’s also interesting is that in the 1912 article, her brother said that it was the ‘first officer’
who placed her in the boat. Clearly Second Officer Lightoller was working at No. 12 at the time,
but photographic evidence shows that he most likely had not changed his uniform insignia with the
officer re-shuffle at Southampton. Is it possible that this was actually a reference to Lightoller, and
that his rank was mistaken as being that of the First Officer? The concept, while by no means a
certainty, is intriguing.
Mary Sloan’s letter to her sister, reprinted in full available in On Board, Behe, 395–397.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Her account is riddled with a
number of errors, which have to be deftly fielded. First, she said that she left in Boat No. 13;
initially one might construe the event she referred to as the mess between Nos. 13 and 15.
However, in that instance, it would have been her boat which had the falls cut, not the other. What
about the trouble No. 11 experienced? There is no evidence that No. 11’s falls were cut while part
or all of the boat was still above the air. Rather, No. 11’s falls were cut once it was in the water. It
seems much more plausible that she was in Boat No. 12, and saw the preceding boat which had
left – No. 14 – smack the water when Lowe cut the falls. This is just one piece of evidence that
supports her being in No. 12. When the correct timeline for the aft port boats was discovered,
placing the launch of No. 14 before No. 12, then this account seems to fall nicely into place in the
timeline.
Amer. 636.
The Rockford Republic, April 25, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. It has been suggested that
Dagmar escaped in Boat No. 12, but that theory – right or wrong – seems to have little first-hand
evidence from her own written and newspaper accounts. The present authors decided to place this
account here, in the vicinity of No. 12, but without making a definite connection to No. 12, since
the extant evidence does not at this point allow for any conclusive statements about what boat she
was rescued in.
Br. 2965–2972.
Amer. 637.
Palladium Times, September 11, 1985. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Rochester Democrat & Chronicle, April 21, 1912 and April 15, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 636.
Detroit Free Press, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Daily Boston Globe, April 17, 1932. Courtesy of George Behe and Mike Poirier. It has frequently
been concluded that May Futrelle was rescued in Collapsible D. However, this is incorrect. In the
above newspaper, Futrelle herself states that she was rescued in Boat No. 9, and alludes to the
Lines ladies, who were also saved in No. 9. She refers to them as a mother and daughter, ‘Boston
279.
280.
281.
282.
283.
284.
285.
286.
287.
288.
289.
290.
291.
292.
women’ who were coming to America to see the son graduate from Harvard. (In fact, Elizabeth
Lines’ son was graduating from Dartmouth College.) Futrelle also mentions ‘an able seaman
named Paddy’ being in charge of the boat, a reference to Able Bodied Seaman George McGough,
who in other accounts, is also referred to as ‘Paddy McGough’. Several witnesses said that
McGough was in charge of No. 9, likely because he sat at the tiller.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Although Mock did not specifically
reference the number of this boat, he said it was ‘the boat aft’. This was apparently a reference to
No. 9’s location aft in Second Class regions of the deck. When the pair attempted to move
forward again, they were prevented and diverted toward Boat No. 11.
Deposition of Elizabeth Lines, given as part of the Limitation of Liability hearings, November 24,
1913; Boston Traveler, April 15, 1966; unknown newspaper, August 6, 1975. The two newspaper
articles are courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Daily Mirror, May 13, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Indianapolis Star, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier; Robertha Watt’s account can be
found in On Board, Behe, 422–423. Ellen’s recollection of gunfire is probably on the port side at
Boat No. 14, even though the wording of her account seems a little out of place. Yet Robertha
Watt’s account mentions nothing of gunfire at Boat No. 9.
Amer. 597.
Amer. 597; Amer. 602.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 13322–13328. Many occupants in Boat No. 9 claimed that Able Bodied Seaman George
McGough was in charge of Boat No. 9. However, this appears to be a mistake based on the fact
that he was sitting at the tiller.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Deposition of Elizabeth Lines, given as part of the Limitation of Liability hearings, November 24,
1913; Boston Traveler, April 15, 1966; unknown newspaper, August 6, 1975. The two newspaper
articles are courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 1055.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912; Br. 6497–6498; Br. 2527–2528. Sixth Officer Moody is not
mentioned by name as being the officer who was ordered down to A Deck and who supervised
the loading there, but his identity is made clear by the evidence. Steward Littlejohn mentioned an
unnamed officer being down on A Deck during the loading of No. 13. This officer may also have
been on hand for the loading of boat No. 11 on the same deck, although Littlejohn’s description
doesn’t specify this for certain. Steward Rule also seems to confirm the presence of an officer on
A Deck during the loading of No. 15, saying that he ordered them to get all the women and
children into the boat that they could find.
Lookout Lee testified that the officer in charge on A Deck at No. 13 was either the Fifth or
Sixth Officer, that he was drowned, was six feet tall, thin, and with a light complexion. Of all the
officers, this description fits Moody alone both in physical terms and in terms of his fate. Captain
Smith and Chief Officer Wilde were engaged elsewhere at the time and do not even remotely fit
that physical description. Likewise, Lightoller was engaged on the port side nearly exclusively, and
Murdoch remained on the Boat Deck. Third Officer Pitman had already left the ship, and Fourth
Officer Boxhall was forward and never assisted on A Deck aft. Fifth Officer Lowe had already
left the ship in No. 14 by this time, and wasn’t involved in the loading and lowering of the aft
starboard boats. Moody is the only plausible option.
The Duluth Herald, May 1, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
293.
294.
295.
296.
297.
298.
299.
300.
301.
302.
303.
304.
305.
306.
307.
308.
309.
310.
311.
312.
313.
314.
315.
316.
317.
318.
319.
Amer. 651; The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
Amer. 549.
Br. 13301, 13312–13314.
The New York Times, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Pageant, October 1953. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Ibid.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 651.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Amer. 544; Amer. 651.
The Evening Sentinel, April 24, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Ibid.
The Duluth Herald, May 1, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Thomas Andrews: Shipbuilder, Shan Bullock, 1912. Bullock’s source for this story is not named
in the text, but he can be identified as Steward John Stewart. Please see Appendix L: Thomas
Andrews’ Fate, for further details on this subject.
Waterbury Republican, April 25, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in its entirety in On Board, Behe 264–277.
New York Times, April 22, 1912.
The Loss of the Titanic, Washington Dodge. Address delivered by Dr Dodge to San Francisco’s
Commonwealth Club. Account contained in On Board, Behe, 264–277.
Br. 6490–6493; 6596–6599.
New York Times, April 22, 1912.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold. Gunnar Tenglin later
gave newspaper interviews claiming to have been rescued in Collapsible A. However, this is
contradicted by his private accounts of his survival, and other comments he made about the
sinking, claiming that he boarded the ‘next-to-last’ lifeboat aft.
Ibid. Wennerström appears to have been guessing that this lady stayed below deck after he left.
Ibid.
East Galway Democrat, May 11, 1912.
Notes of Walter Lord’s interview with Katie Manning, née Gilnagh; conducted on 07/20/55.
Courtesy of Paul Lee.
Account of Daly, written down by Dr Frank Blackmarr, and signed by Daly. Reproduced in ‘Dr.
Frank Blackmarr’s Remarkable Scrapbook’, Titanic Commutator, 3rd Quarter 1998; information
from a private account by Bertha Mulvihill to her family; Centennial Reappraisal, Appendix J.
Daily Sketch, May 4, 1912; Providence Journal, April 20, 1912; information courtesy of Bertha
Mulvihill’s family, based on accounts of the disaster given to them after the sinking. The
aforementioned interview with Bertha Mulvihill that appeared in the Providence Journal is based
on a real interview given by Bertha Mulvihill, and does contain some accurate information.
However, it also contains many inaccuracies and embellishments that she later complained about.
Amongst others, these include her allegedly becoming friends with Quartermaster Hichens during
the voyage, seeing Captain Smith wielding a gun, and supposedly hearing ‘Nearer My God to
Thee’ as the ship sank, all details that she denied. The article also refers to Eugene Daly as
‘Eugene Ryan’. This account mentions Bertha’s sighting of the Rice family, but claims the reason
that the family perished is because Margaret Rice’s husband wasn’t allowed to enter the boats by
320.
321.
322.
323.
324.
325.
326.
327.
328.
329.
330.
331.
332.
333.
334.
335.
336.
the officers, and that she wouldn’t leave without him. While Bertha really did see the Rice family,
Mrs Rice’s husband was killed in an accident well before the Titanic sank, and was never aboard.
Miss Dowdell’s account is compiled from her accounts in The Hudson Dispatch, April 20, 1912;
The Jersey Journal, April 20, 1912; The Hudson Observer, April 20, 1912. The Amy Stanley
portion of the story is compiled from The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912 (full account available in
On Board, Behe, 402–403).
Br. 6501–6505.
East Galway Democrat, May 11, 1912. There is some evidence to suggest that Daly was beaten
during the struggle to remove him from the boat. According to the May 4, 1912 issue of the weekly
New York paper Irish World, Daly ‘bore the marks on his face of blows from sailors who fought
with him against entering the last boat as it was lowered with many vacant seats’. No. 15 was not
the last boat as the article claimed, but was the last of the aft starboard boats lowered. There
apparently were seats open when Eugene was pulled out of the boat, although No. 15 ended up
being one of the most heavily loaded boats that night when all was said and done; all of the seats
were filled by the time it was lowered, and it wasn’t lowered away half empty as the article
suggests.
Cork Examiner, May 7, 1912. This quote comes from a letter to Maggie’s sister Mary that was
published by the newspaper.
Br. 6537; 6587–6590; 6648–6658.
Br. 4461–4470.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
Amer. 804.
Miss Dowdell’s account is compiled from her accounts in The Hudson Dispatch, April 20, 1912;
The Jersey Journal, April 20, 1912; The Hudson Observer, April 20, 1912. The Amy Stanley
portion of the story is compiled from The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912 (full account available in
On Board, Behe, 402–403).
The Fort Wayne Sentinel, April 29, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Mrs Hewlett’s account has a
wonderful beginning and an interesting end, but the mid-portion of it leaves much detail out. At the
end point of the account, it is very interesting to note that she was one of the last women who
entered the boat, and that she admitted to protesting boarding the craft. Is she the same woman
that Steward Ray had to argue with? While merely speculative, this presents itself as a tantalizing
possibility.
Br. 2115–2156.
Amer. 804.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
Beesley, Ch. 3.
Br 20128–20133.
Br 20161–20180. Mauge was only one of three à la carte Restaurant employees to survive. The
others were Miss Ruth Bowker, 1st Cashier, and Miss Mabel Martin, 2nd Cashier.
Br. 2156–2167. Barrett’s testimony seems confused in this particular stretch, but it seems that this
is the best interpretation of the evidence as regards the timing of the order. Murdoch would have
known that the lifeboats were safe to fill with 65–70 passengers, because he was present during
weight tests in Belfast. It seems likely that this order was given by someone other than Murdoch,
particularly since Beesley did not recall hearing the officer who passed him by say anything like
that. The order recalled by Barrett could have been given by someone else – one less informed on
the capacity of the boats – who happened by after Murdoch had departed; however, this is pure
speculation.
337.
338.
339.
340.
341.
342.
343.
344.
345.
346.
347.
348.
349.
350.
351.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Amer. 804.
The Irish Sunday Press, June/July 1956, courtesy of Geoff Whitfield. Unfortunately, the identity
of the female passenger is unknown. It may have been Maggie Daly, Bertha Mulvihill, or someone
whom Daly simply recognized. Many passengers in No. 15 were Irish Third Class passengers,
some of whom had gotten to know each other during the voyage. In the latter-day interview with
Daly, this female passenger is referred to simply as a ‘woman who had been put into one of the
lifeboats’, while Maggie Daly is referred to by name elsewhere in the article. Mary Daly Joyce,
Daly’s daughter, states in an article for the St. Louis Today website that he had entrusted these
items ‘to the girls (i.e. Maggie and Bertha) to send home’. However, Bertha’s private accounts to
her family don’t mention him giving them any personal affects. It is possible that she neglected to
mention this, but the truth cannot be ascertained at this time.
Br. 2170.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf) Fireman Frank Dymond took charge of No.
15 once it reached the water. (Br. 4374) There was some confusion about who was in charge of
this boat. Steward Rule believed that Steward Stewart was in command. (Br. 6596) It is possible
that Stewart was put in charge before Dymond boarded, and subsequently relinquished control to
him. Oddly, Rule also testified that there was an Able-Bodied Seaman aboard. (Br. 9621–9623)
This crewmember was likely Lookout Evans, but for some reason, despite being a member of the
Deck Department, he did not assume command of the boat. Please see Appendix I: The Loss of
Deck Crew on the Titanic Over Time, for additional evidence relating to Evans in No. 15.
Br. 6503.
Information courtesy of Bertha Mulvihill’s family.
Miss Dowdell’s account is compiled from her accounts in The Hudson Dispatch, April 20, 1912;
The Jersey Journal, April 20, 1912; The Hudson Observer, April 20, 1912. The Amy Stanley
portion of the story is compiled from The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912 (full account available On
Board, Behe, 402–403).
Amer. 804.
Br. 743a; Br. 2170–2174; Beesley, Ch. 3.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier. Immediately after this, Theissinger’s account mentions standing talking to Storekeeper
Cyril Ricks while staring at the iceberg which they had run into. He estimated that it was 300 feet
high. While he probably did talk to Storekeeper Ricks after No. 15 was lowered, the entire portion
of his account about the iceberg seems to be a complete fabrication, either on the part of
Theissinger or the journalist who wrote the article.
Utica Herald-Dispatch, April 30, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. There has been speculation that
the couple boarded Boat No. 10, discussed later in the text. However, it isn’t entirely clear as of
this writing where that idea came from. The concept of holding the men back while women
boarded does not seem to fit well with Murdoch’s style, either, and it can be established that he
was involved in the loading of Boat No. 10. Because of this, the present authors have chosen to
place this portion of their account in the general vicinity of Boat No. 10, but without drawing a
definite connection to that boat. Some interpretation on the point should be allowed for.
Amer. 604; Amer. 612–613; Amer. 675–676.
Bright later testified (Amer. 832) that he did not actually send any Morse signals himself; his
participation was limited to the rocket-firing.
Amer. 1101.
352.
353.
354.
355.
356.
357.
358.
359.
360.
361.
362.
Ibid.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf) It is interesting to note that Boat No. 1 gets
so much attention for having contained just twelve occupants; meanwhile Boat No. 2 – launched
much closer to the end, when it was known that the ship was doomed – left with only a small
number more, but has garnered virtually no attention for having so many vacant seats. The names
of seventeen occupants of this boat can be established.
New York Times, April 22, 1912.
Br. 15450–15453. In his testimony, Boxhall says he wasn’t sure who it was that was calling out. In
his 1962 radio interview, Boxhall said that it was Captain Smith. His latter-day comment is backed
up by 1912 accounts from other survivors such as Peter Daly, who said Captain Smith was the one
who ordered the boats to come back to the ship.
Amer. 337; The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 6. The quote about Hichens being crazed with fear
during these events comes from the private account of First Class passenger Helen Churchill
Candee, which was published in part in Colonel Gracie’s book.
Amer. 676; Br. 5987.
Amer. 604.
Joughin was the sole witness to claim that Lifeboat No. 10 was the first of the aft port boats to
leave the Titanic. However, the British Assessors chose to believe his account over the accounts
of Evans and Buley, both of whom testified that No. 10 was the last of the aft port boats to be
lowered. Other passengers, who did not testify at either Inquiry, also said No. 10 left last; among
these were Nellie O’Dwyer, Imanita Shelley, Gretchen Longley, Kornelia Andrews, Anna
Hogeboom and Ada Ball. See ‘Titanic: The Lifeboat Launching Sequence Re-Examined’, by Bill
Wormstedt, Tad Fitch and George Behe, for additional details.
Amer. 676.
Br. 5954–5957; 5981–5987; Amer. 604. Buley confirms Joughin’s version of events. He said that
the women were reluctant to board No. 10, even though it was the last lifeboat to be lowered from
that part of the deck, and they ‘threw them in’ because they ‘didn’t like the idea of coming in’.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Boat No. 10 was the last of the aft
port boats lowered, not the last boat overall; however, the seaman in question must have believed it
was the last one to leave the ship. Imanita Shelley and Lutie Parrish are sometimes listed as having
been saved in Boat No. 12. However, there is a good deal of evidence against this. In his book,
Colonel Gracie concluded – based on correspondence with survivors – that these two ladies were
in Boat No. 10. There is a lot of evidence to support his conclusion.
The lifeboat Shelley left in hung away from the ship’s side ‘between 4 and 5 feet’ due to the
port list. During the loading of the aft boats, the port list was only this severe while Boat No. 10
was being loaded. During the loading of Boats Nos 16, 14 and 12, either no list was described, or a
slight list to port was mentioned. (See ‘Titanic: The Lifeboat Launching Sequence Re-Examined’,
by Bill Wormstedt, Tad Fitch and George Behe, for additional details on the list and how it relates
to the lifeboat timeline.) Shelley’s mother had to be thrown into the boat and she had to jump
across the gap, also conditions that suggest Boat No. 10, where Joughin and others had to chuck
passengers and children across the gap into the boat. Shelley indicated in her Senate Inquiry
affidavit (Amer. 1147) that she was told her boat was the last boat. The majority of eyewitnesses
said No. 10 was the last of the aft port boats.
Additionally, according to her affidavit, the ship’s baker (Joughin) was manning Shelley’s boat at
the time of its lowering just as Joughin himself testified (Br. 6007). Joughin was not involved in the
loading of Boat No. 12, which he did not even see leave the ship. (Br. 6009) Shelley also indicated
that a man jumped down into her lifeboat as it was lowering, injuring Lutie Parrish, and that there
363.
364.
365.
366.
367.
368.
369.
370.
371.
372.
373.
374.
was trouble getting to the tripper and freeing the falls once her lifeboat touched down in the water.
Seaman Frank Evans mentioned both of these incidents in his testimony, saying that they happened
at No. 10 (Amer. 676); others from No. 10 mention a man jumping into it and landing on a woman
as it lowered away. All of these facts support Gracie’s conclusion that Shelley was in boat No. 10.
The only point counter to this evidence is Shelley’s claim that her boat rescued the survivors off
Collapsible B, which Boats No. 4 and No. 12 did. It is possible that Shelley was embellishing her
account in this regard, as none of the other details she mentions match Boat No. 12. It is also
possible that she was transferred to Boat No. 12 by Fifth Officer Lowe when he redistributed
passengers between the boats in his makeshift flotilla after Titanic sank, although Shelley doesn’t
describe that happening.
Amer. 1147; Amer. 676; Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Imanita
Shelley says that this man jumped from the deck into the boat just as it reached the water. Able
Bodied Seaman Evans speculated that this man must have jumped from A Deck, since First
Officer Murdoch was overseeing things on the Boat Deck at that point.
The Patriot, April 20/23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. One is forced to wonder if the ‘drunk
stoker’ she referred to wasn’t Baker Joughin, who had been drinking that night. Also intriguing is
the mention of an officer who was placed in the boat and then ordered back out. Is it possible that
this was Sixth Officer Moody? Although conjecture, the possibility that Moody had been so close
to surviving in Boat No. 10 is quite an interesting one. Whoever it was that ordered the officer out
must have been Murdoch, who was supervising the loading process.
Br. 3828–3856; Winston-Salem Journal, July 23, 1912. Dillon was entirely unsure of what boat
was being loaded, but did know that it was on the port side.
Amer. 676.
The Patriot, April 20, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Amer. 677; Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. Shelley supports Evans’
description of the difficulty they had in releasing the falls at No. 10.
Private account of Martha Stephenson & Elizabeth Eustis, 1912; The Truth About The Titanic,
Ch. 2.
Amer. 81.
Amer. 1107. Lightoller isn’t identified by name in Emily Ryerson’s affidavit, but it is clear that he
was the officer in question, since he was in charge of the loading of No. 4. She refers to him as
‘an officer at the (A Deck) window’. In her 1915 Limitation of Liability testimony, Ryerson
identified Second Steward Dodd as the crewman who tried to prevent her son from boarding the
boat. However, in her 1912 affidavit filed in the Senate Inquiry, she stated that ‘I only remember
the second steward at the head of the stairs’, and that he told them where to go on the boat deck.
She didn’t mention Dodd in connection with Boat No. 4.
Private account of Martha Stephenson & Elizabeth Eustis, 1912; The Truth About The Titanic,
Ch. 2.
Awake! magazine, 10/22/1981. Master Nicola-Yarred’s account of benefiting from the assistance
of a man he later learned was John Jacob Astor seems quite authentic, as there were not many
obviously-pregnant ladies traveling with middle-aged husbands in First Class on the ship. This
account would thus place the two children at Boat No. 4, which would certainly have appeared to
be ‘the last boat,’ as Master Nicola-Yarred recalled, from their particular vantage point on A
Deck.
Others have speculated that the children departed in Boat C, since Jamilia recalled that their
boat caught on the ship’s side as it went down and the ship was still listing to port. However, since
375.
376.
377.
378.
379.
380.
381.
382.
383.
384.
385.
386.
387.
388.
Boat No. 4 was tied off to the coaling wire by Lightoller earlier that night – to prevent it from
swinging away from the ship’s side if a list began to develop – and needed to be cut free in order
to be lowered, it could have given some of its occupants the impression that the boat got hung up
on ship’s side. Because of this, Jamilia’s recollections do not necessarily support that they were in
Boat C. The children survived the sinking and were safely united with their family. Their names
were eventually ‘Americanized’ to Louis and Amelia Garrett. Louis turned 12 on April 16, 1912.
Detroit Free Press, April 21, 1912 (courtesy Mike Poirier); also unknown, undated newspaper
account (courtesy of Peter Engberg-Klarström).
April 20, 1912 account by Jack Thayer. George Behe collection. Account in full available in On
Board, Behe, 412–414; also Thayer, 1940.
Detroit Free Press, April 21, 1912 (courtesy Mike Poirier); also unknown, undated newspaper
account courtesy of Peter Engberg-Klarström.
Amer. 581; Amer. 1107–1108.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Amer. 1107.
Br. 6305–6309.
Br. 6020–6021, 6211–6223, 6226–6231, 6290–6304. For Joughin to have seen water in this
location, he must have been in his cabin quite late in the sinking.
Br. 6020–6039. It is clear that Joughin’s account has some significant timing issues. Considering
the half-tumbler of liquor he consumed during the disaster, it is likely that his timing estimates – and
perhaps, in some cases, the order in which he did things – should be taken with a grain of salt.
For example, although he said that he went from the Boat Deck down to B Deck to throw
chairs overboard, there was no location on B Deck for him to do this from. He also did not say that
he then had to go back up to the deck pantry, which would have been required if he went from B
Deck up to A Deck. It seems almost certain that he was instead on the Promenade Deck the
whole time.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912; New York Times, April 22, 1912; Providence Journal,
April 20, 1912.
Br. 16533; New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Br. 16540–16547; British Wreck Commissioner’s Inquiry Report. The Titanic’s end of the
Baltic/Titanic exchange was recalled by Bride. He remembered sending this message himself
while Phillips was out on deck checking on the situation. The New York time of this exchange was
fixed in the British Inquiry final report, using wireless logs:
(http://www.titanicinquiry.org/BOTInq/BOTReport/BOTRepWireless.php)
Br. 16549–16533. This particular detail is very important. Phillips found the Well Deck awash
sometime during or after Bride’s 1:47–1:52 a.m. exchange with the Baltic. This shows that QM
Rowe’s Senate Inquiry estimate that he stopped firing rockets and left the Bridge at 1:25 a.m.,
leaving soon thereafter in Collapsible C, is far too early. What Phillips said he saw can be
correlated with Rowe’s observances. The latter said the Well Deck was awash when Collapsible
C left the ship, and that in the 5 minutes it took to lower the boat due to the port list, the Well Deck
had submerged. Coupled with Rowe’s testimony that Collapsible C left 20 minutes before the ship
sank, and the timing of Phillips’ trip on deck, this indicates that the rocket firing ceased much later
than 1:25 a.m., and that the collapsible left closer to 2:00 a.m.
Amer. 159; New York Times, April 28, 1912. Although Bride said that at that time (around 1:50
a.m.) they were concerned about whether they were getting a spark, the wireless log in the British
Inquiry shows that their signals were picked up during the next ten minutes by the Mt. Temple, the
Caronia, and the Carpathia. However, it was clear to those operators that in the minutes leading
389.
390.
391.
392.
393.
up to 2:00 a.m. (Titanic time), their power was fading and their signals were getting harder to
read.
Br. 1053–1055; Br. 1082–1089; Amer. 570.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2.
Amer. 519. It appears that Quartermaster Rowe may have been the person to send up the last
rocket. Rowe stated that he asked Captain Smith, and not Boxhall, if he should fire another rocket,
and Smith said, ‘No, get into that boat.’ (Amer. 51) Though Rowe did not say he fired a rocket
then, it does show that Captain Smith, and not Boxhall, was in charge of rocket firing at this time,
as the Fourth Officer had previously left in Boat No. 2.
There is other evidence of rockets being fired after Boxhall left the Bridge. Chief Steward John
Hardy said he had last seen Captain Smith while he was on the Bridge ‘superintending the rockets,
calling out to the quartermaster about the rockets’. (Amer. 601) First Class passenger Mahala
Douglas, who left the Titanic with Boxhall in No. 2, said goodbye to her husband as the boat was
lowering away. ‘That was the last word I ever spoke to him. They were putting off rockets on the
deck as we got away.’ (New York Herald, April 20, 1912)
Assuming Rowe was the person sending up the last rocket, it would have occurred around 1:50
a.m. Boxhall left the ship around 1:45 a.m., and Captain Smith began supervising the rockets at
that time. Hardy and Douglas both indicate at least one rocket was fired after the Fourth Officer
left, before Smith ordered Rowe to desist and help out at Collapsible C. After firing this last rocket
(or rockets) at around 1:50 a.m., Rowe would have had around 10 minutes to help out at the
starboard collapsible before it started lowering away at 2:00 a.m.
Amer. 886, 889–890; Br. 10391–10394. Some have claimed that Wilde was the only officer who
helped at Collapsible C. However, this ignores the eyewitness accounts which indicate that both
officers were present at different points. First Class passenger Hugh Woolner said that Murdoch
stopped a rush at the collapsible with warning shots from his revolver, and oversaw the last stages
of the loading. It is unlikely that Woolner misidentified Murdoch’s identity, as he specified
Murdoch’s name and rank, and said that he recognized the First Officer’s voice. Murdoch was the
ship’s only Scottish officer, and his voice would have been easily distinguishable.
Third Class Pantry Steward Albert Pearcey also specified Murdoch’s role in the loading of this
boat, having been ordered into it by him. Pearcey has previously served with Murdoch on the
Olympic. Both of these men are backed up by Fireman Harry Senior, who stated that the ‘first
officer’ worked at Collapsible C. Senior’s account matches Woolner’s regarding the First
Officer’s actions at the boat.
Wilde probably left and went to the port side, because progress on Boat C was somewhat
advanced over that on Boat D. Murdoch’s arrival on the scene likely coincided with Wilde’s
departure, in that Wilde saw that the First Officer could look after the situation if he left to work on
Boat D.
Amer. 519–520; Amer. 832–833. Another bit of evidence that supports a later timeline for the
firing of the rockets and the lowering of the boats than some claim comes from QM Bright in his
testimony at the American Inquiry. He said that the he worked along with Boxhall and Rowe at
firing the rockets; he thought they fired a half-dozen rockets at intervals. When asked how long the
intervals were, he could not seem to remember, explaining:
I could not say. After we would fire one we would go and help clear the boats away, and then
we would come back again.
When asked how long the entire process of firing the rockets continued, he estimated that it
took ‘probably half an hour’. Interestingly, Rowe also felt that their work on the Bridge firing the
rockets took a relatively short time, about forty minutes, as he recalled in the British Inquiry:
17684. How long do you think it was from the time you commenced firing the rockets till you
finished firing the rockets? - From about a quarter to one to about 1.25 [i.e., 40 minutes].
Note here, not the exact times that Rowe gives, since those are clearly on the early side, but
rather the duration he speaks of: forty minutes. The period that Bright and Rowe were referring
to would have been the period that the three men worked together on the Bridge. It would not
have included the period from when Rowe placed the call to the Bridge until he and Bright arrived
there, or the period before his phone call, when Boxhall fired at least one rocket, as supported by
the Fourth Officer’s inquiry evidence. Working backward from the time that the last rocket was
fired should thus give us a pretty good idea of when the process started.
When Boxhall departed in No. 2, at 1:45 a.m., work had already begun on both Collapsibles C
and D. Shortly after Captain Smith ordered Boxhall into No. 2, he ordered Rowe to take charge of
Collapsible C. Rowe’s testimony at the American Inquiry is that the Captain told him not to fire
any more rockets before getting into C; in later letters and interviews during the 1960s (previously
referred to) discussing the same moment, he says that Smith ordered him to fire that last rocket
and then go. Either way, it is clear that the rocket-firing stopped around 1:50 a.m., give or take a
few minutes. Working backwards from that time by thirty minutes (Bright) would place Rowe and
Bright’s arrival on the Bridge around 1:20 a.m.; working backwards by forty minutes (Rowe)
would place their arrival around 1:10 a.m.
To the 1:10–1:20 a.m. estimate of Rowe and Bright arriving on the Bridge, one would have to
add time for the two men to walk from the Poop Deck up to the Bridge, as well as the time it took
them to collect the rockets from the locker, and to descend to that locker from the aft Docking
Bridge after their phone call to Boxhall. But that trip would certainly not have taken half an hour or
longer. But just how long would it have taken? In his March 2, 1963 interview with J. Powell,
Rowe said that this trip took only 10 minutes. Thus, from the time Rowe first placed his call to the
Bridge to the time he and Bright arrived there would most likely have encompassed no more than
15 minutes. This would place his call to the Bridge – based on the 30–40 minute estimates, a trip to
the Bridge which reportedly took about 10 minutes, and the time to make the call and pick up the
rockets from the locker – between 12:55 to 1:05 a.m., which fits very well with a 12:40 a.m.
departure of Boat No. 7, giving it enough time to slide just far enough out from the hull for Rowe to
spot it.
Working backward from about 1:50 a.m., arriving at 12:55-1:05 a.m. by using these estimates by
Rowe and Bright of how long the work took and how long it took them to get there, suddenly
brings something else to one’s attention. Rowe said (Amer. 519), that he spotted the first lifeboat to
leave the ship at 12:25 a.m. Endnote 164 discusses the possibility that Rowe had set his watch
back by 23 minutes at midnight, assuming that the ship’s clocks had also been set back as
anticipated. If he had set his watch back, and you add 23 minutes to 12:25 a.m., you arrive at a
time of 12:48 a.m. when he spotted that boat. This is a mere seven minutes’ difference from the
early time that we arrive at when working backward from the end-point of firing the rockets. In
other words, working from the ends to the middle of his accounts creates a near-perfect match.
Furthermore, if one throws a 23-minute adjustment to his watch into his estimate of when he
left the Bridge, this also begins to look much closer to the timeline suggested by many other lines of
evidence. To say that Rowe was a problematic witness over the course of his testimony,
interviews and letters spanning over fifty years would be an understatement of epic proportions.
However, by looking at his evidence in the light of other events and the testimony of other
witnesses, a pretty clear picture of how events played out emerges.
One final line of evidence that confirms a later sequence for the firing rockets comes from the
Californian. The last rocket that her officers noticed went up at about 1:40 a.m. according to their
ship’s time; since the Titanic’s clocks were about 12 minutes ahead of the Californian’s, this puts
394.
395.
396.
397.
398.
399.
400.
401.
402.
403.
the last rocket that they saw after Boxhall’s known departure time, and close to the estimated 1:50
a.m. time our timeline built independently. If correct, the 1:40 sighting by the Californian’s men
would place the last rocket launched at 1:52 a.m., Titanic time.
Waterbury Republican, April 25, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Unfortunately, Miss Badman’s friend from Kent, England was unnamed in her accounts. She later
claimed that it was Edward Lockyer, but there is no evidence to confirm this identification at the
time of this writing.
The Syracuse Herald, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. In Miss Badman’s account, she
remembered seeing two shootings on the Boat Deck, but she did not mention the location or time
of these events. She only said that the first shooting was of a steward who refused to help with the
boats. The second was of an Italian man who jumped into the boat on top of women and children
as it was being lowered away. The boat was then hoisted back up, the man brought out on the
deck, and shot.
Miss Badman’s account is sorely lacking in details. The cry of ‘All women and children, this
way’, had obviously been given some time before 2:00 a.m. However, their location at the time is
unknown; the time the order was given is unknown; who gave the order is unknown; how long
they were on the Boat Deck is unknown. Thus, the present authors have skipped trying to run her
account into the chronological narrative and have instead ‘caught back up’ with her at the loading
of Boat C. To delve more fully into the timing of events for her would seem to be no more than
guesswork.
The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe, 402–403.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935. In his book, published over twenty years after the
disaster, Lightoller wrote that he worked on Boat No. 4, and also on Boat No. 2, and Boat D.
However, in his testimony at the American Inquiry, Lightoller stated that another officer had
lowered No. 2 while he worked at Boat No. 4. Colonel Gracie noted this when he wrote his 1913
book, The Truth About the Titanic. The conclusion that Lightoller worked at Boat No. 4, and then
came up to help at Boat D is in harmony with the timing of the two boats’ launch, as fixed by
numerous other lines of evidence. Lightoller’s later recollections on this point must have been
colored by the passage of time.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935; The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 2. In his 1935
account, Lightoller says that this incident happened at the ‘emergency boat’, which could be taken
to mean Boat No. 2. However, as noted above, Lightoller said in 1912 that he had nothing to do
with the loading of this boat. It is likely that Lightoller meant Collapsible D, or that he simply
confused the details over the years; in his 1913 book, Colonel Gracie says that Lightoller told him
personally that men rushed Collapsible D, and that he had to threaten to shoot them.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 15039–15040.
BBC radio interview with Commander Joseph Boxhall, first broadcast on October 22, 1962.
Amer. 242–243; Amer. 540; Br. 15472–15478; BBC radio interview with Commander Joseph
Boxhall, October 22, 1962. In his testimony in the British Inquiry, Boxhall said: ‘I do not remember
any gangway doors being open.’ However, in his 1962 BBC radio interview, Boxhall said that
when he rowed around to the starboard side, he ‘found that there was such a mob standing in the
gangway doors…I daren’t to go alongside because if they’d jumped they’d swamp the boat…I
daren’t go along the side again, and I pulled off and laid off…I pulled away about a quarter of a
mile…’
In his testimony, Boxhall claimed suction was one of the reasons he didn’t go alongside the ship,
while Able Bodied Seaman Osman said there was no suction, and that they ‘could not get to the
starboard side because it was listing too far’. At the inquiries, no one said that the gangway doors
404.
405.
406.
407.
408.
409.
410.
411.
412.
413.
414.
had actually been open when No. 2 came around the stern. However, it would be understandable
if, at the time, the survivors were reluctant to admit that the doors had been opened and that they
had not come alongside to take on any additional passengers.
If Boxhall wasn’t mistaking details in his mind 50 years after the sinking, it would mean that the
officers’ plan, mentioned by Lowe in the inquiries, for the boats launched at less than full capacity
to take on more men from the gangways once afloat, had nearly been successful after all. Recall
that Lightoller had sent men below earlier in the night to open gangway doors, and those men were
never seen again. Perhaps the plan of the officers came closer to succeeding than previous
histories of the events have acknowledged.
Br. 5706–5709. Scott also testified that he left the deck ‘between a quarter of an hour and twenty
minutes’ after coming on the deck at ‘about twenty to two’. (Br. 5841–5842) However, it is clear
the difference between the lowering times of Boats Nos 14 and 4 was greater than that, so by any
reckoning, this second estimate of timing is flawed. Scott himself said that once he had gotten his
lifebelt he was able to make it up to the deck in about five minutes. (Br. 5775) Overall it seems
that his first estimates on the timing of events were more correct than his second estimates.
Br. 5685–5693. Scott testified that he noticed these engineers about a half-hour after coming on
deck. (Br. 5795) This would have been at about 1:50–1:55 a.m.
Scott’s observation runs counter to the myth that the engineers stayed below deck until the ship
sank, never abandoning their posts. It is not surprising that the engineers were released to come on
deck just after the other men working below deck. With the flooding being as advanced as it was
by 1:20 a.m., there was nothing further that they could do below deck.
Br. 5710.
Ranger seemed to indicate that he was actually on B Deck, near the Second Class Smoking
Room. However, he and Greaser Scott climbed up the davits for Boat No. 16 from the Boat Deck.
Scott also mentioned that there was a group of engineers, firemen ‘and all that’ who were on the
starboard side aft of the Boat Deck. It is nearly impossible to imagine two similarly-sized groups of
engineering staff on the aft-starboard sides of the Boat Deck and B Deck nearly simultaneously,
so it seems almost certain that Ranger was still on the Boat Deck. This is particularly true since
Scott had just switched off the fans over the First Class Smoking Room just above the Boat Deck.
While the present authors leave open the possibility that Ranger went down to B Deck before
coming back up, this does not seem to be the most likely explanation.
Br. 4033–4062.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 4088–4089. Ranger did not say that the two men went out on the same davit, so the present
authors really can’t conclude whether they shared the same davit or used adjacent davits.
Br. 5669–5673, 5695–5698, 6514; Br. 4054, 4067–4073.
See Paul Lee’s article ‘Ismay’s Escape: Did He Jump or Was He Pushed?’ This article discusses
the circumstances under which Ismay boarded Collapsible C, as well as the conditions surrounding
the loading of that boat in general. It is available at the following URL:
http://www.paullee.com/titanic/ismaysescape.html.
Please see Appendix H: Incidents of Gunfire During the Sinking for further details.
William Carter boarded this boat; his family had just left in Boat No. 4 on the port side at 1:50 a.m.,
some ten minutes earlier. Because the Mersey Inquiry Report incorrectly placed the lowering of
Collapsible C at 1:40 a.m., instead of its actual departure time of 2:00 a.m., they assumed that Mr
Carter had abandoned his family to save himself, with Carter’s family boarding No. 4 after he had
left the ship. However, Mr Carter did state that he had seen his family off first, and his wife later
confirmed this as fact. This detail is added in an attempt to help correct a longstanding
misconception regarding Mr Carter’s conduct that night.
415.
416.
417.
418.
419.
420.
421.
422.
423.
424.
425.
426.
427.
428.
429.
430.
431.
432.
433.
Amer. 520; ‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf)
Waterbury Republican, April 25, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Oxford Times, May 18, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe, 402–403.
Amer. 524; Br. 17688.
The Syracuse Herald, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Waterbury Republican, April 25, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 14020–14027. Lightoller stated in his testimony that before Collapsible D lowered, ‘I could see
it [water] climbing up the stairway’, i.e. from B Deck. He also stated that D only had to be
lowered 10 feet to reach the water. A Deck was 9 feet 6 inches below the Boat Deck, so the
water would have been close to the level of A Deck as the crew started to lower the collapsible.
Lightoller said that once D was finally lowered, ‘A Deck was under water’, and that ‘almost
immediately afterwards’ he saw water coming up the stairway onto the Boat Deck. The authors
are thankful to Sam Halpern for his observations regarding the technical details and physical layout
of the ship as it relates to Lightoller’s testimony.
Amer. 74. Lightoller’s recollection adds the ‘to straighten her up’ portion.
Truth About the Titanic, Ch, 2.
Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912; The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2.
Amer. 81; Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Amer. 588.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
(http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf) A picture taken of Collapsible D as it
approached Carpathia is clear enough to allow a rough count, which looks to be approximately
thirty-five occupants.
However, Collapsible D picked up three people from the water (including Woolner and
Björnström-Steffansson), and around twelve people when Lifeboat No. 14 was transferring people
prior to going back into the wreckage looking for survivors. The most accurate estimate of the
number of occupants in Collapsible D as it lowered appears to be around twenty.
Br. 14019–14020; Amer. 839. Quartermaster Bright’s observation that the Forecastle was
submerging as Collapsible D lowered, when correlated with Quartermaster Rowe’s testimony, is
further proof that Collapsible C and D left at most five minutes apart, and that the former left close
to 2:00 a.m., and not 1:40 a.m. as the British Inquiry concluded. Rowe’s description of the forward
Well Deck being ‘awash’ as Collapsible C began lowering, and being ‘submerged’ five minutes
later when it reached the water is telling, as the physical layout of the ship dictates that the
Forecastle head had to be submerging or submerged in order for the Well Deck to be submerged.
Bright indicates this was happening as Collapsible D began lowering.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Ibid; The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 6. Other details of Frederick Hoyt’s experiences were
supplied by him in a letter to Colonel Archibald Gracie; Paterson Morning Call, April 23, 1912.
Amer. 887–888. Woolner estimated that he and Steffansson had to jump nine feet to reach
Collapsible D. With a 10$$$ port list (the degree supported by eyewitness accounts at the time) the
edge of the collapsible would have swung five feet away from Titanic’s side, and it would have
been approximately nine feet to the middle of the boat when they jumped.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier; The Truth About the
Titanic, Ch. 6. Other details of Frederick Hoyt’s experiences were supplied by him in a letter to
Colonel Archibald Gracie.
Paterson Morning Call, April 23, 1912; also account by Irene Harris in New York Evening
Journal, May 11, 1912. Her account is contained in full in On Board, Behe, 320–323.
434.
435.
436.
437.
438.
439.
440.
441.
442.
There were actual provisions to assist the crew in getting Boats A and B down to the Boat Deck;
the two funnel stays that ran to the deck outboard of the collapsibles were fitted with links so that
tackles could be connected to hoist the boats off the roof and on down to the Boat Deck. The
problem that night was that no one seemed to be aware of that provision, and no one seemed to
know where the tackles were stored, either. If anyone did, they did not have time to fetch them.
The authors would like to thank Art Braunschweiger for providing these technical details.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst. Mellors’ testimony in the Limitation of Liability hearings in June 1915 in the U.S.
District Court confirms that he was near Collapsible C as it lowered.
Pawtucket Times, May 22, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier. This ‘last boat’ lowered from the rail may
be a reference to Collapsible C. If that is the case, the fact that Boat A was being prepped for
departure nearby afterwards would have tended to keep Mrs Abbott and the other women nearby,
hoping that they could board the craft.
April 20, 1912 account by Jack Thayer. George Behe collection. Account in full available in On
Board, Behe, 412–414; also Thayer, 1940.
Chief Officer Wilde’s whereabouts after helping get Collapsible D away have not been
established.
Amer. 159
New York Times, April 28, 1912; Amer. 159–160. Captain Smith’s quote is a paraphrase from the
lengthy and rambling quotation that Bride gave in his story to The New York Times, supplemented
with information from his Senate Inquiry testimony.
It was the Caronia that heard the Frankfurt transmitting to the Titanic at midnight New York
time, or 2:02 a.m. Titanic time. (Established at the British Inquiry and shown at:
http://www.titanicinquiry.org/BOTInq/BOTReport/BOTRepWireless.php) The Caronia’s operator
did not report hearing Phillips’ response, which is in harmony with the fact that the wireless set’s
last gasp of power was then giving out.
Amer. 151–153; Br. 16561–16566. When Bride and Phillips appeared on the Boat Deck, all boats
except Collapsibles A and B had gone. The last boat to depart prior to this was Collapsible D on
the port side, which left at 2:05 a.m. They obviously arrived on the Boat Deck just before the 2:15
a.m. final plunge.
At 11:58 p.m. New York time (2:00 a.m. Titanic time), the Asian heard a transmission from the
Titanic, reportedly an ‘SOS.’ When the Asian answered Titanic, she received no further
communication. Interestingly, at 12:00 midnight New York time, or 2:02 a.m. Titanic time, the
Caronia’s operator heard the Frankfurt call up the Titanic, saying that they were 172 miles away
at the time of the first SOS.
The Ypiranga heard Frankfurt calling Titanic around this same time. Although Bride said that
Phillips told Frankfurt’s operator that he was a ‘fool’, Phillips’ response was recorded simply as
‘Stdbi, stdbi, stdbi!’ (i.e. ‘Stand by.’) in Ypiranga’s PV.
The Virginian’s operator heard from Cape Race at 12:05 a.m. New York time, or 2:07 a.m.
Titanic time, that they had not heard from the Titanic ‘for about half an hour. His power may be
gone’. At 12:10 a.m. New York time, or 2:12 a.m. Titanic time, the Virginian’s operator thought
that he heard Titanic calling ‘very faintly, his power being greatly reduced’. Again, at 12:20 a.m.
New York time, or 2:22 a.m. Titanic time (after the ship had already sunk), the Virginian’s
operator heard two faint ‘v’s’, thought that it sounded like Titanic, and believed that her operator
was adjusting his spark. However, the fact that no one picked up Phillips’ response to the 2:02 a.m.
Frankfurt message demonstrates that at least the later of these two of the transmissions picked
up by the Virginian’s operator came from another wireless set, perhaps even an amateur set a
long distance away.
443.
444.
445.
446.
447.
However, it is known that the Titanic was the only ship on the Atlantic at the time with a rotary
spark gap, which emitted a distinctive tone instead of a rasping spark. Some have used this detail
to argue that the Titanic’s clocks were not 2 hours and 2 minutes ahead of New York. (‘Titanic
Time: Tested by Wireless’, Senan Molony, Voyage No. 63.) However, the later transmissions could
have come from any shore-based station with a rotary spark gap. Is this a stretch to believe? No.
Why?
This is because at 1:58 a.m. New York time, or 4:00 a.m. Titanic time (by the 2 hrs 2 min
estimate, or 3:31 a.m. Titanic time by the 1 hr 33 minute estimate that is advocated by some), the
Mt. Temple’s operator reported that the Birma’s operator thought that he heard the Titanic
transmitting, and so sent: ‘Steaming full speed to you; shall arrive you 6 in the morning. Hope you
are safe. We are only 50 miles now.’ This was unquestionably after the Titanic had sunk by any
estimate of time, and yet operators were still thinking that they heard the Titanic’s Marconi set in
operation. So if they were mistaken at 4:00 a.m., (Titanic time) it was certainly possible that they
were mistaken at 2:22 a.m. (Titanic time).
So it is very clear, in view of the overall timeline, that the Virginian’s operator was mistaken in
thinking that it was the Titanic calling at 2:22 a.m. Titanic time. It is also possible that the earlier
2:10 a.m. transmission (Titanic time) may not have come from the Titanic, although Phillips and
Bride clearly worked the key to about that time. So which of these two – the 2:00 a.m.
transmission picked up by the Asian and Ypiranga, or the 2:10 a.m. transmission picked up by the
Virginian – was the last call sent by the Titanic may never be known for sure. In either case,
Phillips and Bride continued to work the key until just about 2:10 a.m., whether the set was still
transmitting their messages or not.
New York Times, April 28, 1912.
Ibid.; Amer. 160. Bride changed his story by the time he testified in the British Inquiry. By that
point, he was claiming that he forced the stoker away from Phillips as he attempted to steal the
lifebelt, and then Phillips noticed and came to help. In this version, Bride only held the man, while
Phillips beat him unconscious. Bride’s reluctance to admit to the examiners his role in the potential
killing of a fellow crewmember, justified or not, is understandable; however, the contradiction did
not escape the examiners, who pointed out that this version of events was different from what he
initially said in America. This is but one example of several contradictions between Bride’s various
accounts. Some details of his testimony given between the American and British Inquiry differed
so widely that the Solicitor-General said he would like to be ‘satisfied we have got hold of the
same gentleman who gave evidence in America’.
In a blatantly distasteful example of embellishment in the yellow press, the story of Bride and
the stoker was repeated in newspapers following the sinking, but with the story altered to the point
where the stoker was a ‘negro’, and was shot with a rifle.
New York Times, April 28, 1912. Bride’s quote about the band is important, because it seems they
were still playing in the vicinity of the First Class Entrance when the operators left their cabin.
That location was still ‘aft’ of where Phillips and Bride emerged on to the deck.
The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 2.
The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 2. The quote from the officer comes from Gracie’s book.
Gracie didn’t specify that this officer on the roof of the Officer’s Quarters who asked for
assistance was Lightoller; indeed he didn’t seem to know who it had been. However, it makes
sense that it was the Second Officer, since he was in charge of the group working at Collapsible B,
and there is no evidence that another officer was involved there.
It’s been said repeatedly that the crew tried to use oars to slide the boats down to the Boat
Deck. This is incorrect. They were instead using the canvas cover spars which were installed
448.
449.
450.
451.
452.
453.
454.
455.
456.
457.
458.
459.
460.
461.
longitudinally in the collapsibles to keep their canvas sides elevated. The authors would like to
thank Bruce Beveridge of the TRMA for helping the present authors get this detail right.
New York Times, April 28, 1912.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 2.
Please see Appendix J: The Last Song.
Washington Post, April 23, 1912. Details of Father Byles’ and Father Peruschitz’s actions earlier
in the night come from the account of Third Class Passenger Ellen Mockler, and from the Catholic
magazine America.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Bullock, 1912. Bullock’s source for this story was a survivor’s account in his possession, but
unfortunately, he did not mention the name.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou. If it seems surprising that
Fitzpatrick could have thought the ship would still float even that late, it must be remembered that
Jack Thayer and Milton Long, just a little aft of the Bridge on the starboard side, still thought the
same thing.
Amer. 160–161.
Br. 14035–14036; Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Amer. 666.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou.
Br. 10530; East Galway Democrat, May 11, 1912. This article contains the contents of a letter
Daly wrote to his younger sister Maggie, still in Ireland; the letter was penned sometime between
April 18 and 21, 1912. Daly believed that he helped free Collapsible B, the boat he was later saved
on. However, he was unaware of how this boat came to be upside down. As Lightoller and others
described, Collapsible B fell into the water on the Boat Deck upside down as they freed it, and
there ‘was no time to open her up at all’. If Daly actually freed that boat, he would have known
those details.
Daly also describes the collapsible he worked on as getting stuck under a wire stay. This
description makes no sense if he was referring to Collapsible B, since no wire stays would have
prevented it from being pushed off the roof of the Officers’ Quarters. However, Daly’s description
makes perfect sense if he was describing Collapsible A, since there was a wire funnelstay directly
inboard of the aft davit used to launch Boat No. 1 and Collapsible C. That same set of davits had
been cranked back in to receive Collapsible A. This, coupled with having to push the collapsible
uphill against the port list, and trying to maneuver its bow around the structure surrounding the
stairway down to A Deck, would have impeded the efforts to launch it.
Onboard the Carpathia, Daly told Dr Frank Blackmarr that passengers clung to the edges of
the collapsible he worked at as it was being freed, and that they had to cut ropes to free it as water
reached the deck where he was located; these details do not match what happened at Collapsible
B. All of this indicates that the boat he helped with was Collapsible A on the starboard side, and
not Collapsible B as he believed. As detailed by Lightoller, Collapsible B somehow ended up on the
starboard side near the funnel as the Bridge plunged under, so Daly’s confusion about this is
understandable. Other passengers who were near Collapsible A when it was washed overboard,
and who later reached Collapsible B, also thought they were in Boat A.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou; Titanic: Belfast’s Own, by
462.
463.
464.
465.
466.
467.
468.
469.
470.
471.
472.
473.
474.
475.
476.
477.
478.
479.
480.
481.
482.
483.
484.
485.
486.
487.
488.
489.
490.
491.
Stephen Cameron (1998), pg. 93. This latter account was forwarded to Lord Pirrie by Andrews’
friend David Galloway. For further information, please see Appendix L: Thomas Andrews’ Fate.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 2.
Amer. 671.
Br. 10534.
Amer. 666.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster. Courtesy of
Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
April 20, 1912 account by Jack Thayer. George Behe collection. Account in On Board, Behe,
412–414; also Thayer, 1940.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou; Titanic: Belfast’s Own, by
Stephen Cameron, 1998, pg. 93.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou.
Account of Daly, written down by Dr Frank Blackmarr, and signed by Daly. Reproduced in ‘Dr.
Frank Blackmarr’s Remarkable Scrapbook’, Titanic Commutator, 3rd Quarter 1998; private letter
from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of Brian Ticehurst;
Main Line Life, May 11, 1997. All three men describe the Boat Deck rising up slightly after the
initial plunge. For full details on this, please see Appendix N: The Breakup.
Br. 10652.
‘Dr. Frank Blackmarr’s Remarkable Scrapbook’, Titanic Commutator, 3rd Quarter 1998.
Bangor Daily Commercial, April 19, 1912; Chicago Daily Tribune, April 21, 1912.
‘Dr. Frank Blackmarr’s Remarkable Scrapbook’, Titanic Commutator, 3rd Quarter 1998.
The Evening World, April 22, 1912.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou.
The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 2.
Amer. 628.
Evening Banner, April 26, 1912; Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written
on May 9, 1912, courtesy of Brian Ticehurst.
Br. 10542–10548.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster. Courtesy of
Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Private letter from George Rheims to his wife, April 19, 1912. Rheims’ deposition – filed in the
Limitation of Liability hearings on November 14, 1913 – indicates that he leapt overboard near the
Gymnasium.
New York Times, April 22, 1912; Titanic: The Canadian Story, Alan Hustak, 1999.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Amer. 164. Please see Appendix M: Down With the Ship? Captain Smith’s Fate, for further
information.
Amer. 91–92; Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935; New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
Br. 6040–6052; Br. 6359–6364. It seems likely that Joughin was hearing the very early stages of
the breakup of the ship, as the stresses on the hull and keel increased.
Pawtucket Times, May 22, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
492.
493.
494.
495.
496.
497.
498.
499.
500.
501.
502.
503.
504.
505.
506.
507.
508.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935; The Christian Science Journal, Vol. XXX,
October 1912, No. 7. Exactly what caused this rush of hot air is debatable. But there still seems to
be evidence on the wreck of a tremendous force having pushed the air intake apart from inside,
partially verifying Lightoller’s story.
The effect of a huge amount of water crashing over and around the forward Grand Staircase was
not fully understood until film director James Cameron went to re-create the moment for his 1997
blockbuster, Titanic. The staircase set was built very much like the original ship’s staircase, and
should approximate very closely the original’s strength. When the set was lowered quickly into the
tank and a large volume of water was sent crashing down through the dome from above, the
staircase quite literally broke up and floated out. After this incident, Titanic researchers began to
see that this startling re-creation may be the explanation for the nearly complete absence of the
staircase’s remains on the wreck. Only the steel framing for the lowest portions of the staircase
are still in place today.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Ibid.
Main Line Life, May 11, 1997.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
‘Dr. Frank Blackmarr’s Remarkable Scrapbook’, Titanic Commutator, 3rd Quarter 1998.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster. Courtesy of
Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold. Wennerström believed that this man was later picked up
and rescued from the water, but does not give his name. In a letter to Ed Kamuda of the Titanic
Historical Society in 1963, Quartermaster George Rowe claimed that he had pulled in the log-line
of the ship while he was still on the stern Docking Bridge earlier in the night, to prevent it from
fouling the propellers. If this is true, the man Wennerström saw might have been climbing down a
rope or fall rather than the actual log-line.
Please see Appendix N: The Breakup, for all pertinent information on the angles reached before
the break.
2:17 a.m. is logical, especially since the plunge at the bow started at about 2:15 a.m. Also
interesting is that Apprentice Gibson on the Californian saw the lights of the steamer he was
watching disappear at 2:05 a.m. by their clocks. Adding the 12-minute time difference between the
two ships comes right out to about 2:17 a.m., the same time that the Titanic’s lights snapped out.
These two completely disparate lines of evidence (along with all the other evidence already
presented) really go a long way toward demonstrating that the ship that Stone and Gibson were
watching from the Bridge of the Californian was the Titanic.
Br. 10553–10557.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
Chicago Daily Tribune, April 21, 1912; Bangor Daily Commercial, April 19, 1912.
Information courtesy of Bertha Mulvihill’s relatives. Bertha always told the family the ship had
broken in half.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
Br. 3861–3868. Trimmer Thomas Dillon, standing on the Poop Deck, said that the aft funnel
‘seemed to cant up towards me’. When questioned further on the point, he agreed with the
statement that it ‘seemed to fall aft’. This would have been after the break, and the funnel stays to
the forward side of the funnel broke, tipping the funnel aft.
Private notes from an interview conducted by Walter Lord with Richard Norris Williams, dated
April 27, 1962. Notes are contained in ‘The Lord/Pellegrino Communications Files’ collection, and
509.
510.
511.
512.
513.
514.
515.
516.
517.
518.
519.
are available online at: http://www.charlespellegrino.com/passengers/r_n_williams_11.htm.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
Br. 6052–6073.
Br. 4094–4119. Please see Appendix N: The Breakup (subheading When Did The Lights Fail?) for
further information. To many of those acquainted with the basics of the Titanic’s history, this is a
rather startling bit of information. However, it was noted by more than one survivor.
For more information on this rotation of the stern section as it sank, please see Appendix N: The
Breakup.
The Evening World, April 22, 1912; The Irish Sunday Press, June/July 1956, courtesy of Geoff
Whitfield.
East Galway Democrat, May 11, 1912. First Class passenger Jack Thayer, also saved on
Collapsible B, recalled the same thing in his 1940 book The Sinking of S.S. Titanic. Describing
the scene, he stated that Collapsible B had been ‘gradually sucked in toward the great pivoting
mass … we were right underneath the three enormous propellers. For an instant, I thought they
were sure to come down right on top of us’. For more information on this rotation of the stern
section as it sank, please see Appendix N: The Breakup.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912. Courtesy Mike
Poirier.
LiverpoolJournal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western Daily
Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou.
Thayer, 1940.
Please see Appendix N: The Breakup, for all available information on the details regarding the
breakup.
Br. 6074–6076; Amer. 13
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
CHAPTER 6: ON ‘A SEA OF GLASS’
Amer. 349. During the inquiries, there were several times when it was mentioned that large
quantities of cork had been seen among the floating debris. It was speculated that the cork was
from lifebelts; in fact, it was from cork used as insulation inside the ship, freed as she broke apart.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 4.
Private letter from George Rheims to his wife Mary, April 19, 1912.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 4.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Unknown newspaper, dated April 20, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 5022; Br. 13098.
Sphere, May 25, 1912.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
New York Times, April 22, 1912.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Br. 2176.
Amer. 657.
Amer. 599.
Amer. 598; Amer. 657.
Br. 13336–13351.
Amer. 520.
The information and table are based on information published online by the United States Search
and Rescue Task Force. See ‘Cold Water Survival’ page at the following URL for additional
information: http://www.ussartf.org/cold_water_survival.htm.
The Truth About the Titanic, Chapters 4–5.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Thomas Whiteley’s Titanic lecture.
Letter from Harold Phillimore to Ed Kamuda, June 12, 1964. Courtesy of Don Lynch.
Interview with Frank Prentice recorded for Titanic: A Question of Murder, TVS, 1982.
Kapok was a buoyant filling made of vegetable fiber. It was packed into sacks and attached to the
collapsibles’ fenders, and it was also inserted between the mid-keel, the side keels and the outer
planking. The bow and stern sections of the floating body were also filled with buoyant cork. For
further information, please see TTSM, Vol. 1, 571.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
Br. 10563–10570.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Pawtucket Times, May 22, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
Private letter from George Rheims to his wife Mary, April 19, 1912.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (Courtesy Mike
Poirier).
New York Times, April 22, 1912.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 606.
Amer. 572; Amer. 827.
New York Times, April 20, 1912.
Amer. 827; Amer. 1008.
Amer. 570; Amer. 827.
Amer. 1007–1010.
For evidence that there was a southerly setting current of 196.7° that night, see Sam Halpern’s
article ‘Collision Point’, available at the following URL:
http://www.glts.org/articles/halpern/collision_point.html.
Amer. 570; Amer. 1008; letter from the Countess of Rothes to Thomas Jones, courtesy of Geoff
Whitfield.
Amer. 338; Additional details are from the accounts of First Class passengers Helen Candee and
Margaret Brown, as recorded in The Truth About Titanic, Ch. 6.
Ibid.
Amer. 1032.
Account of Anna Warren, as recorded in The Truth About Titanic, Ch. 7.
Amer. 530; Hartford Times, April 19, 1912.
Amer. 282; Amer. 530; Amer. 1032.
Amer. 818.
Amer. 530.
Titanic Disaster, by Karl Behr, reprinted in Titanic Commutator, No. 176, 2006.
Amer. 563.
Br. 2992–3029; Amer. 636. It must be noted that Able Bodied Seaman Frederick Clench’s
testimony only partially confirms Poingdestre’s, although Clench was not the most detailed witness
in some regards. Clench does not mention Boat No. 12 rowing back toward the ship to look for
survivors, only saying that they rowed a quarter of a mile away from the ship and lay on the oars,
never seeing any wreckage. When asked ‘what did you do after you resumed rowing’, i.e. after
the ship sank, Clench replied: ‘We was rowing up there’, but he never elaborated. (Amer. 636–
638)
Amer. 973; Br. 12387–12393; Br. 5047–5057; Br. 12375–12378.
Br. 15469–15472; Amer. 541; Amer. 1101.
Br. 3513.
Thayer, 1940.
Amer. 666.
Amer. 581–582.
Br. 5669.
Br. 4085–4086.
Amer. 666.
Br. 4104; Br. 5843; Amer. 582; Amer. 667.
The Sinking of the Titanic, (Jay Henry Mowbray, 1912) Ch. 18. White does not specifically
identify the boat that rescued him as No. 4. However, the details in his account make it clear that
he was pulled into this boat: White slid down a set of falls, and was pulled into a nearby boat which
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
contained ‘five firemen in her as a crew, forty-nine women and sixteen children. There was no
officer’. While these details are not 100% correct, they only come close to describing Boat No. 4;
Boats Nos. 4 and 14 were the only ones to row back and pick up passengers from the water after
the ship sank, and White’s details more closely match the composition of occupants of the former.
Amer. 667.
Br. 3886.
Amer. 795. Bedroom Steward Siebert is the ‘mate’ Cunningham refers to as leaving the ship with
him, and says that he died right after being pulled into the boat.
Amer. 795. Another person possibly pulled from the water into Boat No. 4 was Assistant
Pantryman Steward F. Smith. This possibility is raised in the testimony of Bedroom Steward
Cunningham, who says that ‘there was a fireman there’, named ‘F. Smith’. It seems likely that
Cunningham mistakenly referred to Smith as a fireman during his testimony, as Smith was a
steward, and there were no other crewmembers named ‘F. Smith’ aboard the ship. There was a
Trimmer named Ernest Smith, but the name doesn’t match. Whoever Cunningham was referring
to, it does not appear that an F. Smith was ever aboard No. 4: he did not survive the disaster, and
only two men (Lyons and Siebert) died in Boat No. 4.
Amer. 796.
Interview with Frank Prentice recorded for Titanic: A Question of Murder, TVS, 1982.
Br. 3877–3881; Br. 3890.
Amer. 795.
Amer. 1108.
Br. 3932–3934. It seems possible that Dillon was mistaking Siebert for a passenger, since the
majority of testimony indicates that only two men died aboard this boat (Amer. 582; Amer. 668;
Amer. 1108), and both have been identified: Siebert and Lyons.
Titanic: Our Story by Martha Stephenson and Elizabeth Eustis, from On Board, Behe; Prentice’s
account in The Southern Evening Echo, April 15, 1982.
Letter from Harold Phillimore to Ed Kamuda, June 12, 1964. Courtesy of Don Lynch.
Thomas Whiteley’s Titanic lecture.
Chicago Daily Tribune, April 21, 1912.
The Irish Sunday Press, June/July 1956.
Thayer, 1940.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Br. 6093–6104. Joughin claimed that he was ‘practically’ in the water for 2½ hours (Br. 6109)
prior to being pulled into one of the lifeboats – either Boat No. 4 or No. 12 – that rescued people
from Collapsible B. It is physically impossible for a person to have survived that long completely
submerged in 28° water; but a careful reading of Joughin’s account suggests that at least the
upper-half of his body was out of the water as he hung on to Maynard and the boat, with just his
legs and feet in the water. It has also been suggested, erroneously, that the liquor Joughin had
consumed that night somehow protected him in the water. While alcohol does give a warming
feeling and could dull the senses to the point where someone might not feel the cold as much, it
actually constricts blood vessels, which would lead to lessened blood flow to the extremities. This
would cause a person to pass away much more quickly than they would if they not had anything to
drink. All in all, it seems likely that Joughin was not in the water for 2½ hours, that he survived
from not being completely submerged during his ordeal, and that alcohol had little or nothing to do
with his survival.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 5; Amer. 632. Colonel Gracie, Scullion John Collins (Amer. 633),
Eugene Daly (account to Dr Blackmarr), and Fireman Walter Hurst (correspondence with Walter
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
Lord) all mention this swimmer in their accounts. It was an incident that stuck with those who
witnessed it.
See Appendix M: Down With the Ship? Captain Smith’s Fate, for more details.
Private letter from George Rheims to his wife Mary, April 19, 1912.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Amer. 582.
Amer. 668.
Br. 3029–3048.
Ilford Graphic, May 10, 1912.
Amer. 1009.
Br. 410; Amer. 407–410; Br. 439.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 677.
Amer. 409.
Amer. 1109.
Br. 13117–13119; Br. 12586. This conversation is reconstructed from the inquiry testimony of
Pusey and Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon. For further information on this subject, please see Appendix G:
The Duff Gordon Affair.
Details on the transfers and evidence relating to it are detailed in ‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy
Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011. This article is available online at the following
URL: http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf.
Amer. 1109.
Amer. 386.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 6.
Amer. 407–408. For many years, the story of a man dressing as a woman in order to board a
lifeboat was believed to be a legend. In fact, Lowe’s testimony and other conclusive pieces of
evidence prove that this incident actually occurred. See George Behe’s online article ‘The Man
Who Dressed As A Woman’ at the following URL for further details:
http://home.comcast.net/~georgebehe/titanic/page4.htm.
Amer. 410; Amer. 606; Amer. 678. Estimates all seem to place the time when Lowe went back
for survivors between an hour and an hour and a half after the sinking. Given the time that the
Carpathia arrived on the scene, 4:00 a.m., (Amer. 21) and all that Lowe did after rowing back to
the site but before being rescued, the shorter estimate, or a time of around 3:20 a.m., seems more
likely.
Amer. 677.
Amer. 605.
Amer. 677.
Br. 439.
Amer. 616.
Br. 5341.
Letter from Harold Phillimore to Ed Kamuda, June 12, 1964. Courtesy of Don Lynch.
Bridgewater Mercury, April 1912; Herts Advertiser & St. Albans Times, May 4, 1912.
Amer. 406; Amer. 621.
Amer. 678; 605.
In the 1997 film Titanic, Fifth Officer Lowe is shown using a flashlight to help guide them in their
work. Director James Cameron said: ‘One of the problems with these scenes photographically is
that historically there was absolutely no light other than starlight. … The stars were certainly
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
brilliant, but what we’ve created is what I call the “light of the mind,” a subtle, shadow-less
illumination that allows us to see action and emotion and photograph it unobtrusively. It’s a tough
call because you don’t really know how far you can push it before the audience begins to question
it. I’ve also added flashlights to some of the lifeboats. It’s one of our few historical inaccuracies
but we have to light the scenes somehow.’ (James Cameron’s Titanic, Ed. W. Marsh, 1997, pgs.
163–165.)
Some have criticized the scenes, saying that flashlights had not been invented by 1912. In point
of fact, they had … the Lines, for example, carried one in their lifeboat. However, it does not seem
that those in Fifth Officer Lowe’s boat were actually equipped with flashlights as they searched
the waters.
New York Times, April 27, 1912; Amer. 408; Amer. 616; Amer. 678–679; Br. 441.
Br. 441; Sphere, May 25, 1912; Letter from Harold Phillimore to Ed Kamuda, June 12, 1964.
Courtesy of Don Lynch.
Amer. 616; American Semi Monthly Magazine, May 1912. The exact number of people rescued
from the water by Boat No. 14 is up for debate. Lowe believed that four men were rescued, with
one dying (Amer. 410), and Buley (Amer. 605), Evans (Amer. 677–678), and Scarrott (Br. 439) all
concurred with his numbers. Threlfall believed four were rescued, but gave no additional details
(Bridgewater Mercury, April 1912).
However, Crowe (Amer. 616) and Morris (Br. 5349) both believed there were three men
rescued, with one dying. Crowe gave the most detailed description of the three men rescued, and
seemed certain in his count. Evans’ count of four mistakenly includes Verandah Steward John
Stewart, who was not rescued in Boat No. 14, but in Boat No. 15. (Please see Appendix L:
Thomas Andrews’ Fate, for more details on Stewart’s rescue.) The identities of Hoyt, Phillimore,
and Lang are established as three of the survivors who Lowe rescued. If there was a fourth, his
identity has not yet been determined.
The Sphere, May 25, 1912.
Amer. 299–300. Further details on the transfer of occupants between No. 5 and No. 7 are detailed
in ‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011. URL:
http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf.
The Times, April 20, 1912; Amer. 975. Pitman isn’t mentioned by name as the one who told
Nourney to save his ammunition. However, ‘the man in charge’ of the small flotilla of No. 5 and
No. 7 was indeed the Third Officer.
Amer. 341; The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 6. These events in Boat No. 6 are reconstructed
from Major Peuchen’s testimony, as well as the accounts of Helen Candee and Margaret Brown,
which were given to Colonel Gracie.
The 1997 film Titanic has at times been criticized for depicting the bodies in the water with frozen
features. However, these accounts should make it clear that such a depiction was very accurate.
Information courtesy of the family of Bertha Mulvihill; Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912.
Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 590–591.
Amer. 409; The Sphere, May 25, 1912.
Amer. 409.
Amer. 20–21; Br. 25401.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 6. Based on account of Margaret Brown to Colonel Gracie. The
woman identified as Miss Norton was actually Miss Martin.
Thayer, 1940.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold; George Rheims
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
deposition in the Limitation of Liability hearings, given on November 14, 1913.
The Providence Journal, April 20, 1912.
The fact that Boxhall’s distress coordinates were off by 13 miles was unknown until the position of
Titanic’s wreck was discovered in 1985. For additional details on how this error may have been
made, see Sam Halpern’s article ‘It’s A CQD Old Man: 41.46 North, 50.14 West’, available online
at http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/its-a-cqd-old-man-4146-north-5014-west.html.
Amer. 21–22; Br. 25401–25405; Tramps and Ladies, Ch. 23, by Sir James Bisset, 1959.
Amer. 570; Amer. 829.
Amer. 520.
New York Times, April 28, 1912; The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 5; The Irish Sunday Press,
June/July 1956. The events aboard Collapsible B described in the preceding paragraphs are
reconstructed from these sources.
Amer. 639; The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 5.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 5; specific details on the transfer of occupants into boat Nos 4
and 12 are detailed in ‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011.
URL: http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf
Thayer, 1940; The Evening World, April 22, 1912; account of Daly, written down by Dr Frank
Blackmarr onboard the Carpathia, and signed by Daly. Reproduced in ‘Dr. Frank Blackmarr’s
Remarkable Scrapbook’, Titanic Commutator, 3rd Quarter 1998.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912. Account supplied by George Behe; Western
Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 5; Thayer, 1940.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
Private notes from an interview conducted by Walter Lord with Richard Norris Williams, dated
April 27, 1962. The notes are contained in ‘The Lord/Pellegrino Communications Files’ collection,
and are available online at: http://www.charlespellegrino.com/passengers/r_n_williams_11.htm.
The Washington Post, April 20, 1912.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Br. 10666.
Amer. 679; Amer. 751; Br. 586.
‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, 2011. URL:
http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912; Bridgewater Mercury, April 1912.
Pawtucket Times, May 22, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 21, 1912 (account
provided by Mike Poirier).
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Amer. 412.
Amer. 22; Amer. 1102; Tramps and Ladies, Ch. 23.
Tramps and Ladies, Ch. 23.
Amer. 22; Tramps and Ladies, Ch. 23.
Ibid.
CHAPTER 7: IN THE WAKE OF A LEGEND
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
Br. 12588–12591; Br. 12827.
Br. 12844; Indiscretions, page 183.
All lifeboat recovery times taken from research by historian George Behe, in Centennial
Reappraisal, Appendix I.
Amer. 961.
Amer. 426; Amer. 961; Thayer, 1940. Jack Thayer’s account of visiting Ismay in his room is
confirmed by Ismay’s inquiry testimony. Thayer’s 1915 Limitation of Liability testimony supports
the conclusion that he and his father spoke with Ismay frequently aboard Titanic. However,
Thayer claimed that Ismay’s hair had turned completely white in the short time since the disaster;
however, this clearly didn’t happen, as there are many pictures of Ismay at the inquiries and
afterwards that do not show his hair white, or any grayer than is normal for a man of his age.
Amer. 266; Amer. 270; Amer. 299; Amer. 331.
Albany Times-Union, April 19, 1912; Rochester Democrat and Chronicle, April 21, 1912. Both
of these accounts are reproduced in full in The Carpathia and the Titanic: Rescue at Sea, by
George Behe, Lulu Press, 2011. (Henceforth cited as Carpathia, Behe.)
The Auburn Citizen, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Beesley, Ch. 7.
Titanic Survivor, Ch. 22.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912; Worcestershire Chronicle, April 27, 1912.
George Rheims’ deposition in the Limitation of Liability hearings, given on November 14, 1913.
Private letter from George Rheims to his wife, April 19, 1912. Rheims doesn’t name Peter Daly as
the one who asked for his photograph with a dedication, but it is clear from his description that it
was Daly. He says the man in question was the father of nine, while Daly and his wife eventually
had ten children. No other Collapsible A survivor fits that description. Furthermore, Daly credited
Rheims and Richard Norris Williams with saving his life (New York Times, April 22, 1912).
Private notes from an interview conducted by Walter Lord with Richard Norris Williams, dated
April 27, 1962. Notes are contained in ‘The Lord/Pellegrino Communications Files’ collection, and
are available online at: http://www.charlespellegrino.com/passengers/r_n_williams_11.htm.
Worcester Telegram, April 20, 1912.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 7. Letter from Dr Dodge to Colonel Gracie.
New York Herald, April 21, 1912; the entire Cherry account is published in Carpathia, Behe.
On Board, Behe, 149.
Letter from the Countess of Rothes to Thomas Jones, courtesy of Geoff Whitfield.
The Providence Journal, April 20, 1912.
Information courtesy of the family of Bertha Mulvihill.
New York Times, April 22, 1912.
Amer. 795; Amer. 668.
Br. 3935.
Amer. 1108.
Details from the account of First Class passenger Margaret Brown, as recorded in The Truth
About Titanic, Ch. 6.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
The identity of the body recovered from No. 12 remains unknown. It had been brought aboard the
lifeboat from overturned collapsible B, and was thought to have been First Marconi operator Jack
Phillips. However, research by George Behe has shown that the body was probably not Phillips.
See ‘The Fate of Jack Phillips’ at http://home.comcast.net/~georgebehe/titanic/Page13.htm for
details.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
The Christian Science Journal, Vol. XXX, October 1912, No. 7; The Truth About the Titanic,
Ch. 6. In his Senate Inquiry testimony Gracie mentioned that he and Lightoller discussed the details
of the disaster aboard Carpathia several times. Lightoller also alluded to this in his testimony from
the same inquiry (Amer. 73; Amer. 93).
Amer. 589.
‘Dr. Frank Blackmarr’s Remarkable Scrapbook’, Titanic Commutator, 3rd Quarter 1998; The
Irish Sunday Press, June/July 1956, courtesy of Geoff Whitfield.
Thomas Whiteley’s Titanic lecture.
Br. 6271–6273.
The Truth About the Titanic, Chapters 5–6.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
The Duluth Herald, May 1, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Thayer, 1940.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Ibid.
Amer. 20–21.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
Amer. 23.
Amer. 24.
Amer. 23.
Amer. 22.
See Sam Halpern’s article ‘We Could Not See One Body’, published in The Titanic Commutator,
Vol. 32, No. 181 for an examination of why the bodies of Titanic’s victims were not visible to the
Carpathia or Californian, and why they separated from the floating wreckage.
Amer. 22–23; Amer. 25.
Amer. 952.
Ibid.
Ibid.
Amer. 952–954.
Amer. 926; Amer. 936.
Amer. 23. Please see Appendix P: Buried at Sea, for further details on this matter.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
New York Times, April 19, 1912; Amer. 125–126.
New York Times, April 19, 1912; New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
Titanic: Safety, Speed and Sacrifice, by George Behe, 1997.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Titanic: Triumph and Tragedy, by John Eaton & Charles Haas, 1995. (Henceforth cited as
Triumph & Tragedy.)
Baltimore Sun, April 15, 1912.
New York Sun, April 15, 1912.
New York Times, April 15, 1912.
The Titanic, End of a Dream, Ch. 3, by Wyn Craig Wade, 1979. (Henceforth cited was Wade.)
New York Times, April 21, 1912.
Legend has it that this message was received by David Sarnoff, who went on to helm RCA.
Sarnoff himself fed into the story, but there is a decided lack of first-hand evidence available on the
matter. As there is no certain proof that Sarnoff was personally involved in the event, the current
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
authors have omitted mention of his name in the primary text. Further research into this matter
may be of use in determining the facts one way or another.
New York Times, April 16, 1912.
The details and quotes relating to Franklin in this, and the preceding two paragraphs are, unless
otherwise noted, from Wade, Ch. 3.
New York Times, April 17, 1912.
New York Times, April 17, 1912; New York Times, December 1, 1996.
Daily Sketch, April 19, 1912.
Chicago Daily News, April 16, 1912.
Washington Times, April 17, 1912.
Chicago Daily News, April 19, 1912.
Washington Post, April 19, 1912.
Information courtesy of the family of Bertha Mulvihill.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Ibid.
The Maiden Voyage, by Geoffrey Marcus, 1991.
New York Morning World, April 18, 1912.
Research by historian George Behe has shown that the lifeboats picked up by the Carpathia, and
offloaded at Piers 59 and 60, were lifeboats: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 16 – thirteen in
all. See Appendix I of Centennial Reappraisal for additional details on the lifeboats recovered.
The Sinking of Titanic and Great Sea Disasters, by Logan Marshall, 1912.
Ibid.
Ibid.
Thomas Whiteley’s Titanic lecture.
The Daily Banner, April 19, 1912. According to the April 19, 1912 edition of the Washington
Herald, Madeleine’s destination was her parents’ home, and not Colonel Astor’s home.
Washington Herald, April 19, 1912.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Providence Journal, April 20, 1912; Westmeath Independent, April 20, 1912; Additional
information courtesy of the family of Bertha Mulvihill.
The Maiden Voyage; Triumph & Tragedy.
Amer. 183.
Amer. 959.
Daily Sketch, April 24, 1912.
Amer. 861–862.
Wade, Ch. 4. Details of Marconi’s and Speer’s meeting with Bride are as reported in this book.
New York Times, April 20, 1912.
Washington Post, April 20, 1912; The Daily Banner, April 19, 1912.
New York Times, April 21, 1912.
Ibid.
New York Times, April 20, 1912.
New York Times, April 21, 1912.
Daily Sketch, April 19, 1912. This dispatch, reportedly sent by Captain Rostron, was received in
New York via Sagaponack shortly before 11:00 p.m. on April 18.
The Washington Post, April 20, 1912; Chicago Record Herald, April 21, 1912.
Michel Navratil’s body was recovered by the MacKay-Bennett (body #15) on April 21, the first
day of the recovery effort; he had a loaded firearm on him. His body was taken to Halifax, where
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
it was interred at the Baron De Hirsch Cemetery. The cemetery is designated as Jewish, and
Navratil was mistakenly buried here, based on his assumed name of Louis Hoffman.
Daily Sketch, April 25, 1912 through May 6, 1912. The issues of this paper in this range of dates
chronicle the Olympic strike, and discuss it in great detail.
The Sinking of the Titanic and Great Sea Disasters, Ch. 21, by Logan Marshall, 1912. The
preceding details about the Mackay-Bennett, Bremen, and body recovery are drawn from this
source.
Wade, Ch. 17.
Bodies #124, #96, and #157 recovered by the Mackay-Bennett respectively. Astor’s body was
rumored to have been crushed and soot-covered when recovered, indicating he was killed by the
falling forward funnel. In fact, this is not true. Astor’s body was in good condition when recovered,
and there is no evidence that he was killed by the funnel. See George Behe’s article ‘The Two
Deaths of John Jacob Astor’ at the following URL for further details:
http://home.comcast.net/~georgebehe/titanic/page12.htm.
These details have been gleaned from various eyewitness accounts contained in Carpathia, Behe.
Wade, Ch. 17.
Ibid.
Cork Examiner, May 16, 1912; The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 7. Further details on the body
recovery can be found in Triumph & Tragedy, Ch. 16; and Titanic Remembered: The
Unsinkable Ship and Halifax, by Alan Ruffman, 2000.
Encyclopedia Titanica, biography of William Thomas Kerley, http://www.encyclopediatitanica.org/titanic-biography/william-thomas-kerley.html.
Personal communication from George Behe, July 11, 1999.
Bill Wormstedt’s ‘An Analysis of the Bodies Recovered from the Titanic’ at
http://wormstedt.com/titanic/analysis.html.
Recommendations as given in the Final Report of the Senate Inquiry.
Daily Sketch, April 25, 1912.
Recommendations as given in the Final Report of the British Inquiry.
For further details on the modifications made to the Olympic and Britannic in light of the Titanic
disaster, please see The Edwardian Superliners: A Trio of Trios, (2012, Amberley Books) by J.
Kent Layton, Chapters 5 and 7.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Ice_Patrol.
Unfortunately, much of the testimony taken at the Limitation of Liabilities hearings is not currently
available. Many of the claims and depositions from the 1913 portion of the case are housed in the
National Archives in New York, but for some reason, the transcripts of the testimony given in U.S.
District Court in June 1915 appears to be missing; this includes the testimony of survivors such as
Jack Thayer, Eugene Daly, William Mellors, and others, none of whom were called to testify in the
American or British inquiries. Copies of the 1915 testimonies, if they still exist, would be a great
find for researchers, perhaps revealing new aspects of the sinking. Details of what they testified
about can be gleaned from the June 1915 New York newspapers, who covered the court sessions.
If anyone has any information on the whereabouts of the 1915 testimonies, please contact the
present authors. The Titanic Inquiry web-site, at http://www.titanicinquiry.org/, does have a section
pertaining to the Limitation of Liability hearings, and the web-master is adding more testimonies as
they become available.
New York Times, January 28, 1916; New York Times, July 29, 1916. Additional details on the
Limitation of Liability hearings are from Triumph & Tragedy.
CHAPTER 8: THE ETERNAL ECHOES
1.
2.
3.
Thayer, 1940.
Startlingly, a post card with the lyrics to ‘The Irish Emigrant’ – one of a set of four, apparently –
was mailed by Third Class passenger Patrick Dooley before boarding the liner in Queenstown.
Dooley died in the sinking. It was thus apparently well-known to at least some of those aboard
Titanic, and makes the depiction in the 1979 film seem – in retrospect – like a startlingly good
choice. Please see Titanic: Legacy of the World’s Greatest Ocean Liner, by Susan Wels, (Time
Life Books/Tehabi Books, 1997) pg. 91.
The 1970s were a time of great revival for Scott Joplin’s music, particularly beginning with the
release of the film The Sting in 1973. In 1912, Joplin’s music was still considered socially
unacceptable within certain society circles, and some have criticized the inclusion of Joplin’s works
in dramatic re-enactments of the voyage or sinking.
However, ragtime was extremely popular music in 1912, despite the stigma some attached to it;
it was particularly popular among the younger generation of the period – people of Jack Thayer or
Milton Long’s generation.
It is quite likely that Joplin’s works were very well-known to the Titanic’s bandsmen, as they
had to be prepared for popular requests – and many of these would have come from American
passengers familiar with Joplin’s works. It is very likely that they would have known precisely how
to play at least some Joplin works during the Titanic’s maiden voyage.
A Joplin waltz, such as ‘Bethena’, would have been nearly impossible for anyone to have
complained about. Furthermore, many passengers recalled hearing the band playing ragtime as the
ship went down – not just a single piece, but a number of them, apparently. While Joplin was not
the only ragtime composer, he was the most popular and best-known of them. It is thus very likely
that some of Joplin’s work was heard aboard the Titanic.
An official soundtrack was not released until 2013. As many of the period pieces played in the
film are not listed in the credits, the music contained in the film has become something of a legend
in the Titanic community. We managed to identify many of the pieces contained in the full version
of the film prior to the soundtrack release:
- ‘Waltz from Eugene Onegin’
(Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, 1878)
- ‘Rule, Britannia’ (traditional)
- ‘Eternal Father, Strong to Save’
(William Whiting/John B. Dykes, 1860–1861)
- ‘The Irish Emigrant’ (Irish traditional)
- ‘The Irish Washerwoman’ (Irish traditional)
- ‘The Father O’Flynn Jig’ (Irish traditional)
- ‘Isn’t It Grand, Boys?’ (Irish traditional)
- ‘Elite Syncopations’ (Scott Joplin, 1902)
- ‘Bethena – A Concert Waltz’ (Scott Joplin, 1905)
- ‘A Breeze From Alabama’ (Scott Joplin, 1902)
- ‘The Easy Winners’ (Scott Joplin, 1901)
- ‘I’m Falling in Love with Someone’ (Victor Herbert, 1910,
from the operetta Naughty Marietta)
- ‘Roses From the South’ (Johann Strauss II, 1880)
- ‘For He’s A Jolly Good Fellow’ (traditional)
- ‘Turn Off Your Light, Mr. Moon Man’
(Music by Fred Barnes and R. P. Weston/Lyrics by
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
Fred Barnes and R. P. Weston; from the 1911 Broad
way musical Little Miss Fix-It. First performed by Nora
Bayes and Jack Norworth)
Another piece, which was played during the dance between Martin Gallagher and ‘The Irish
Beauty’, has been identified as ‘The Connemara Waltz’. There is a traditional Irish piece known as
‘The Queen of Connemara’, written in waltz-time. However, as of this writing we can find no
recordings of that piece which clearly correlate with the piece heard in the film. The soundtrack
contained the piece, but only as it was initially heard during boarding at Queenstown, not during the
dance.
The introduction of the Leigh Goodwin character, though not historically accurate, did give
Lawrence Beesley someone to talk to, and articulate some of the things he said in his book.
The film was subsequently released in international markets over the following nine months.
In 2005, a second ‘Dirk Pitt’ adventure film – Sahara – was released. The intention was to ‘reboot’ the franchise with a series of adaptations of the Cussler books. Starring Matthew
McConaughey as Dirk Pitt, Steve Zahn as his sidekick Al Giordino (Giordino was given only the
briefest of screen-time in Raise the Titanic), William H. Macy as Admiral James Sandecker and
Penelope Cruz as Dr Eva Rojas, Sahara was a much better adaptation of the original novel than
Raise the Titanic. Many Cussler fans were critical of it, though, and the rights to sequel films
became bogged down in protracted legal squabbling between Cussler and the motion picture
company behind the film. As of this writing, it does not appear that further Dirk Pitt movies will be
produced.
According to Producer James Fitzpatrick, all that had been found of the original recordings, up until
1999, were the film’s non-dialogue ‘Music & Effects’ tracks.
Silva Screen Records, 1999.
It is said that Director Steven Spielberg first noticed her in this role, and recommended her to
Director Martin Campbell for the role of Elena in The Mask of Zorro.
Even though this was the first depiction of the Titanic breaking apart, the filmmakers did not make
good use of the opportunity. Instead, they used a series of ‘quick cuts’ during the break-up
sequence, which prevented the audience from actually seeing the break-up with any clarity.
The Titanic’s original build price, of approximately £1.5 million in 1911, would have translated out
to roughly $188 million 1997 USD. If this year-to-year conversion is anything like accurate, this
would mean that the film cost more money to make than the original ship. There are varying
estimates for the actual budget of the film, with some ranging as high as $220 million.
It is worth noting, since it is a subject of much debate and misinformation, that the set itself was
actually built at full scale. However, to save costs, certain sections of the exterior set were
removed; this included the entire Forecastle, as well as a number of segments from the length in
the remaining portion of the set. This had the effect of making the entire set somewhat shorter in
overall length than the real ship was. To offset the fore-shortened length, certain prominent
features of the ship – such as the funnels – were scaled down slightly so that she would not
appear too tall in relation to length. This decision also turned the familiar two groups of windows
forward on Titanic’s A Deck Promenade into four smaller groups. Later, Cameron reportedly said
that he regretted not constructing the Forecastle portion of the ship, as it only made more work in
post-production.
David Warner played Lawrence Beesley in the 1979 film S.O.S. Titanic.
The scene was based upon the famous Frank Browne photo, filmed from almost the identical
perspective, and with only very minor variations.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
In this film, Gracie was portrayed by Bernard Fox, who had played Lookout Frederick Fleet in the
1958 film A Night to Remember.
Historian Don Lynch said that during the shooting of some of the film’s scenes, it was quite easy
for him to walk through the cast and correctly identify the characters being played.
For information on Ismay’s involvement with the voyage, please see Appendix O: ‘J. “Brute”
Ismay’? For information on incidents of gunfire and the possibility of officer suicides, please see
Appendix H: Incidents of Gunfire During the Sinking, and Appendix K: Shots in the Dark: Did an
Officer Commit Suicide on the Titanic?
It should be pointed out that filmmakers only have a single option to use in their portrayal of
historical events. On the other hand, the historical record offers more than one possibility.
As of the Second Edition printing of this book, (following the 3-D re-release in April of 2012),
Titanic stands as the No. 2 grossing film worldwide, with an aggregate $2.18 billion take. It was
finally topped by James Cameron’s film Avatar (2009) which took in $2.7 billion worldwide.
If one adjusts for inflation, Titanic currently sits in the No. 5 spot. In descending order, the first
four places on this list are occupied by Gone With the Wind (1939), Star Wars (1977), The Sound
of Music (1965), and E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial (1982). During its theatrical re-release in 2012,
it moved up on this list from sixth place to fifth, taking the No. 5 spot from The Ten
Commandments (1956). Interestingly, if one accounts for inflation, Avatar is still below Titanic, at
the No. 14 spot.
It would be beyond the scope of this text to discuss every historical error in the film, or to try to
show which of these ‘errors’ were actual errors, which were perhaps exaggerations for dramatic
effect, and which were really only selections from a historical record that presented multiple
possibilities. The best thing to do is to familiarize one’s self with the best research on the liner.
CNN, May 20, 2011, ‘Titanic 3-D to be released in 2012’.
AolTV, ‘Battle of the “Titanic” TV Series: Chris Noth and Neve Campbell Join “Blood and
Steel”’, by Catherine Lawson, August 31, 2011.
Digital Spy, ‘“Titanic” drama begins filming’, May 10, 2011, by Catriona Wightman.
A very interesting series of reports by researcher Dr Paul Lee can be found on his web site, at:
http://www.paullee.com/titanic/titanicfound.html.
BBC News, ‘Titanic necklace stolen from Denmark exhibition’, September 19, 2011. Available at:
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-14979008.
The 1985 and 1986 expeditions were subsequently covered in Ballard’s books, The Discovery of
the Titanic, Exploring the Titanic, and Lost Liners; the 1987 documentary Secrets of the Titanic
also covered the expeditions.
At times, the RMS Titanic, Inc. expeditions have provided intense media scrutiny and documentary
coverage. Among these was the 1997 documentary Titanic: Anatomy of a Disaster.
This expedition eventually resulted in the IMAX documentary Titanica.
Footage from the 1995 dives were used in the 1997 film; footage from 2001 was released in the
documentary Ghosts of the Abyss; the 2005 expedition was used in conjunction with The
Discovery Channel for the special Last Mysteries of the Titanic.
This expedition led up to The History Channel documentary Titanic’s Final Moments: Missing
Pieces.
This expedition resulted in the Ballard book Titanic: The Last Great Images, and a documentary
entitled Titanic Revealed.
APPENDIX A: TITANIC’S TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS & SOME COMMON
MISCONCEPTIONS
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Edward Wilding, of Harland & Wolff, testified (Br. 19796–19800) to the Titanic’s displacement at
the draught specified as given above. This figure matched the known measurements of the
Olympic’s weight.
The fallacy of the 66,000-ton displacement was first recorded by Mark Chirnside’s article, ‘The
66,000 Ton Myth’, published in the Irish Titanic Historical Society’s White Star Journal (2007,
Volume 15 Number 3, pages 20–21).
Olympic’s gross registered tonnage in 1911 was 45,323.82. The Titanic was some 1,004.72 tons
greater in measured enclosed space, to be precise.
Br. 19051–19053. Edward Wildling, who worked side by side with Thomas Andrews during the
design and construction of the Olympic and Titanic, said at the British Inquiry that he fully
expected Titanic’s top speed could be as high as 23¼ knots. (Br. 20923) In 1914, the Olympic
managed to briefly exceed 25 knots during a mad dash for the safety of port after the outbreak of
the First World War. There is every reason to believe that Titanic could have done just as good, if
not slightly better under similar circumstances.
This revelation was originally uncovered by maritime researcher and author Mark Chirnside in late
2007. His article on the subject, ‘The Mystery of Titanic’s Central Propeller’ can be found online
at http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/mystery-titanic-central-propeller.html. The original archival
document in question is from the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland (D2805/SHIP/8A-E).
Therein, it is specified that the pitch of Titanic’s wing propellers was upped to 35 ft 0 in. This was
increased from Olympic’s original wing propeller pitch of 33 ft 0 inches, which itself was increased
to 34 ft 6 inches during her post-Hawke repairs. The third ship of the class, Britannic, was given a
four-bladed center propeller.
Unfortunately, there are no known period photographs of the Titanic with its central propeller
installed. Today, Titanic’s center propeller is completely buried under the mud of the sea floor. It
will take a thorough on-site investigation with sub-bottom profiling sonar in order to prove (or
potentially disprove) this original documentation with finality. However, as of this writing, this
original document is the best source of information on the exact design and configuration of the
Titanic’s propellers.
Br. 20820.
A wireless dispatch from Belfast to The New York Times, published March 13, 1913.
The Machinists’ Monthly Journal, Vol. XXVI, No. 4, (Washington, D.C., April, 1914), pgs. 336,
337.
PRO MT15/212, ‘Riveting’, signed by Board of Trade Surveyor Francis Carruthers on 22/2/1912.
The most fascinating investigations into the hull’s strength were performed for the documentary
Titanic at 100: Mystery Solved. Under even the most rigorous stress tests, replica hull plates and
rivets held up far better than might have been anticipated.
PRO MT15/212 shows correspondence relating to the full testing of Titanic’s shell plating,
including the desired range of tensile strength in tons per square inch (29–33 tsi for the plates, 28
tsi for the butt straps), and the complete results of all tests performed on the steel. Harland &
Wolff was able to report that the steel used had been tested and passed by Lloyd’s.
PRO 9-920H, starting at page 1054, shows a rather lengthy list of correspondence between
Board of Trade surveyors in Belfast, Harland & Wolff personnel, and Board of Trade officials in
London on a variety of subjects; these include the collision bulkheads, and how the freeboard of
the sister ships was arrived at. There is much discussion, in this correspondence, on the general
strength and safety of the ships. These missives provide a great deal of information on how closely
the Board of Trade was keeping an eye on the construction of these unprecedented vessels to
assure their finalsafety.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
APPENDIX B: SOUTHAMPTON TO CHERBOURG
For example, in a letter written on board, Second Class passenger Elizabeth Watt wrote that at
7:05 p.m., they had just taken on passengers from Cherbourg. Quoted in On Board, Behe, 87.
The 6:30–6:35 p.m. times are from Le Réveil, April 1912; L’Illustration, April 27, 1912. If
Margaret Brown was correct that the journey by the Nomadic to the Titanic took about a halfhour, and passengers embarked at about 7:00 p.m., then this would also reinforce an anchor-time
of about 6:30. Please continue reading for an explanation of the difference between GMT and
PMT.
Newport Herald, May 28/29, 1912. Full account available in On Board, Behe, 217–226.
Bruce Ismay specifically testified at both inquiries (Amer. 3; Br. 18368–18370) that the engines
were run at 68 revolutions between Southampton and Cherbourg. Although a full slip table was
never completed for the Titanic, (see testimony of Fifth Officer Lowe, Amer. 385) research by
Sam Halpern shows that 68 revolutions works out to an approximate speed of 20.2 knots. (Please
see Halpern’s article, ‘Speed and Revolutions’ (Revised January, 1911) online at his web site:
http://www.titanicology.com/Titanica/SpeedAndRevolutions.htm.)
66 nautical miles divided by 20.2 knots’ speed = 3.267 hours, or 3 hours 16 minutes precisely.
Bruce Ismay, Amer. 3.
George Beauchamp, Br. 874.
Fifth Officer Lowe, Amer. 375.
William Lucas, Br. 1390–1392.
Major Peuchen, Amer. 329.
Deposition of Fifth Officer Lowe to the British Consulate, May, 1912. Used with permission of
John Creamer. Full text available in On Board, Behe, 351–354.
Third Officer Pitman, Amer. 261.
Letter from 11-year-old Eileen Lenox-Conyngham (cross-Channel passenger to Cherbourg, First
Class) to her nanny, Louisa Sterling. Voices, 108.
Belvederian.
The Scientific American Handbook of Travel, 96–97.
Naturally, the actual amount of time that ‘a few minutes’ encompassed could vary from person to
person, and should be perceived as a rough estimate rather than a precise 3–4 minutes as a strict
definition would imply. There were two openings in the Cherbourg breakwater, and it would seem
that the Titanic entered through the western of the two, turning to port and presenting her
starboard side to shore, or to the south. No matter how well-rehearsed the maneuver was, caution
was called for in any confined waters, and ‘several minutes’ may have been as long as 10–15
minutes in reality.
RMS Olympic: Titanic’s Sister (Chirnside, 2004) pg. 72.
The Scientific American Handbook of Travel.
Belvederian.
This detail is passed on by descendents of Bowyer.
If correct, then Bowyer would most likely have taken return passage to Southampton on another
vessel, and it probably would have been done at the expense of the White Star Line. In his Titanic
photo album, Francis Browne included a photo of ‘the pilot boat coming to take the pilot’.
However, a close examination of the photo shows that the ship is still under way, and no evidence
of a transfer seems obvious within the photo itself. Yet it does show that Browne had the concept
in his mind; was it something that he mis-captioned later on? At this point, evidence from
Bowyer’s family and the caption from the Browne photographs are not directly at odds; even if
22.
23.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
they were, they would seem to have an equal chance of being correct. Documentation must be
turned up to prove the point one way or another.
Amer. 332.
Amer. 261.
APPENDIX C: THE QUESTION OF BINOCULARS
Amer. 324.
Br. 17401–17403.
Br. 14325–14328.
Br. 17494–17500; 17377–17378. Apparently, the marking along the side, namely, ‘Theatre, Marine
and field’, referred to three levels of magnification; if other similarly marked glasses from the era
are comparable to these, then they may have referred to 3x, 4x, and 9x magnification. Hogg said
that ‘you worked them as you wanted to use them’, possibly indicating the operation of the
magnification mechanism. As these glasses were marked, ‘Second Officer, S.S. “Titanic”’, this
means that the glasses were supplied for specific officers aboard the Titanic, and were not
personally owned by Blair.
Br. 17501.
Br. 11325, 11326. This was a better arrangement than on the Oceanic, where the glasses were
kept in a canvas bag. (Br. 11320.)
Br. 17502, 17503.
Amer. 568.
Br. 17372.
Between those involved, there is a difference of opinion as to exactly when and where this
happened. On the matter of when, Symons said it was right after clearing the Nab, while Lightoller
did not say whether it was before or after the ship had left her dock. Lookout Fleet added to the
confusion, when he said that the request had been made by ‘the station lookout men … Hogg and
Evans’. (Amer. 323–324.) Oddly, he also recalled that ‘we’ – not specifying who but obviously
referring to the lookouts as a group – ‘asked for [glasses] before we left Southampton’, but were
told that there were ‘none intended for them’. (Amer. 364)
There is also an apparent contradiction over where the request took place. Symons said that he
found Lightoller in the Officers’ Mess, while Lightoller said that he was in his room and heard
Symons outside his quarters, apparently meaning in the hallway outside of his cabin. Since both
men agreed that Lightoller subsequently went to a nearby room belonging to another officer
(Symons thought it was Murdoch’s, Lightoller said it was Wilde’s), it would seem that the event
occurred in the Officers’ Quarters as Lightoller said it did. However, this placement also poses a
problem: if this occurred after the ship had cleared Southampton water, why wouldn’t Symons
have gone to the Bridge, to whoever was on duty? It is possible that those on the Bridge had
referred Symons to Lightoller and sent him to the Officers’ Quarters; it is equally possible that it
was because the event actually took place on April 10, but before the ship departed, at a time
when fewer people would have been on the Bridge.
Either way, the details of this conversation simply don’t seem to add up, and it is very difficult to
conclude when and where it actually happened from the evidence in hand.
Br. 14485; 11324. The final quotation is a merger of two different recollections made as to what
Lightoller’s response to Symons was. Symons recalled that Lightoller had said: ‘Symons, there are
none.’ Lightoller said that his exact response was: ‘There are no glasses for you.’ While there is
very little difference between the wording, it seems logical that Lightoller would have used
Symons’ last name when he returned; thus, Symons’ recollection of the use of his name is added
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
to Lightoller’s more expansive wording. However, a slight variation should be allowed for in this
quotation.
Br. 11324. Interestingly, Lookout Fleet recalled the same request was made of Second Officer
Lightoller, but he recalled that it had been made before the ship departed. This begs the question: if
the lookouts had made a request for binoculars before leaving Southampton, and were told that
there were none intended for their use, why would they ask again immediately after clearing
Southampton waters?
Amer. 583; Br. 17507–17511.
Br. 2647–2656.
Br. 209–211; 218–224.
Br. 11312, 11317–11322.
Amer. 323.
Br. 3161–3165.
Amer. 568.
Br. 2364–2371.
Br. 13374–13381.
Amer. 583.
Br. 17487; 17513–17516.
Br. 216.
Br. 221.
Br. 2372.
Br. 2657.
Br. 11323.
Br. 11986–11988.
Amer. 360–361; Br. 11994.
Br. 17404–17407.
Br. 17441–17445.
Amer. 584–585; Br. 17517–17524.
Amer. 568.
Amer. 721; Br. 7271.
Amer. 727.
Br. 21846–21848.
Br. 21975.
Br. 23712–23713.
Br. 25058–25059.
Amer. 766.
Amer. 424.
Br. 13682–13689; 14289, 14290.
Br. 13690; 14291.
Br. 14293.
Br. 14309.
Br. 18603–18607; 18947–18950.
Br. 19341.
Br. 14322–14324.
Br. 19356, 19357.
This demonstration was carried out for the 2008 documentary Seconds From Disaster: The
Sinking of the Titanic, which aired in the U.S. on the National Geographic Channel.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
APPENDIX D: WHAT TIME IS IT?
Local apparent noon is a term applied to the time when the sun reaches its highest altitude in the
sky – this point is thus precisely the middle of the daylight hours at that location, or local apparent
noon. Every location on earth has a different local apparent noon.
Brochure held in researcher Mark Chirnside’s collection.
Amer. 294.
The Titanic Commutator, No. 156, letters from Rowe to Ed Kamuda of the Titanic Historical
Society in 1963.
Amer. 317.
Br. 1017–1018.
Amer. 294.
While Hichens did not refer to ‘adjusted time’ or ‘unadjusted time’, and did not notice a change to
the clocks after the collision, he was very specific in saying that his relief showed up at 23 minutes
after the hour – the precise amount of time of one of the two intended clock setbacks. It would be
absurd to suppose that Perkis was late by the precise amount of time of one of the two clock
setbacks, and that if it did happen, that Hichens did not mention his relief was tardy in either of his
stretches of testimony.
Amer. 449–451.
Amer. 451.
This information was first uncovered in the 1960s by Leslie Harrison, an advocate for, and friend
of, Captain Stanley Lord of the Californian. The data was again analyzed by researcher Sam
Halpern, and re-affirmed. Further, Mr Halpern was able to run through a complete navigational
track of the Titanic’s voyage through the Atlantic, including daily noon positions and time
alterations. All of this information is contained in Mr Halpern’s article, ‘Keeping Track of a Maiden
Voyage’, which was published in the Irish Titanic Society’s White Star Journal during 2006.
Further information is also available in Centennial Reappraisal.
Amer. 906.
For an explanation of slave/master clocks on the Magneta circuit, please see Chapter 1.
APPENDIX E: TAKING EVASIVE ACTION
Report of the British Inquiry, ‘The Collision’.
Br. 25292.
Titanic’s displacement at 34 feet 7 inches was noted to be 52,310 long tons (Br. 19796–19767).
This was identical to Olympic’s displacement despite the minor modifications made to the Titanic.
Br. 949.
Amer. 362.
Amer. 527–528.
The Chapin/Hichens account is available in Carpathia, Behe.
Br. 17671.
Amer. 361; Br. 973.
Br. 15347. Boxhall also stated (Br. 15345) that the shock came only ‘a moment or two’ after he
heard the crow’s nest bell sound, but it is likely that Boxhall was truncating the timetable to some
extent from when he heard the bell, possibly because he had been inside having tea instead of on
the Bridge during this crucial moment.
This claim first surfaced in a novel, Good as Gold (2010, Quercus), authored by Louise Patten,
grand-daughter of Second Officer Lightoller. While the appearance of such a claim in a novel
might not at first seem important, the claim subsequently received wide attention in the press and
the claim was reiterated in interviews which the author gave. For example, The Daily Telegraph,
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
1.
2.
3.
4.
‘Titanic Sunk By Steering Blunder, New Book Claims’, by Richard Alleyne (available online at:
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/books/booknews/8016752/Titanic-sunk-by-steering-blundernew-book-claims.html) and ‘The “Truth” Behind The Sinking Of Titanic’, Sky News article,
September 22, 2010, by Alison Chung (available online at: http://news.sky.com/home/uknews/article/15738121).
For further details on the Titanic’s steering and telemotors, please see TTSM, Vol. 1, 522–528.
June of 1931 Commons Sitting, Mercantile Marine.
Br. 1860–1866; Br. 661–668; Br. 3715–3721; Br. 3995–4003; Br. 5521–5544.
Amer. 450.
Br. 1025–1030.
Amer. 531–532.
Amer. 229–230. Portions of Boxhall’s testimony between the quotations were removed for ease of
comparison.
Br. 3719–3729.
Letters from George Rowe to Titanic Historical Society President Ed Kamuda, dated 1963, and
published in The Titanic Commutator, No. 156. At times, Quartermaster Rowe’s later
recollections were unreliable and even contradictory. However in this instance, it seems that there
is no evidence to the contrary. Indeed, Rowe testified at both inquiries that he rushed to the taffrail
log and read it immediately after the impact. The detail thus seems supplementary, rather than
contradictory, to his formal testimony.
Amer. 313.
Amer. 974–975.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912.
Titanic researcher Sam Halpern has speculated that First Officer Murdoch did indeed order ‘Stop’
and ‘Full Astern’ before the collision, just as Boxhall testified. However, he believes that given the
unexpected nature of the orders, and how little time there was between the sighting of the berg
and the collision, that the reverse order wasn’t carried out prior to the collision; furthermore, he
feels it is possible that the engines did not start to reverse until a minute or two after the crash,
after they had initially stopped, as per Dillon’s testimony. By the time the engines reversed, Boxhall
had already headed below deck, so it is plausible that he could simply have seen the Engine Room
telegraphs set to ‘Full Astern’ prior to exiting the Bridge, thus leading to the confusion. The authors
would like to thank Sam Halpern for sharing his thoughts on this matter.
‘On Titanic’s Bridge’, by Art Braunschweiger. (Voyage No. 71)
APPENDIX F: THE ICEBERG DAMAGE
Br. 20347, 20422–20423. Recent research by Sam Halpern indicates that Wilding may have come
in at a slightly high figure in estimating his twelve square feet; Halpern’s calculations indicate an
aggregate closer to ten square feet. However, in his 1915 testimony (Limitation of Liability
Hearings) Wilding did allow for some 25% interpretation either way on that figure. In other words,
when this margin for error is accounted for, Wilding’s calculations are still very close to what even
the most modern research produces. For further information please refer to Centennial
Reappraisal, Ch. 6.
The Discovery of the Titanic, Dr Robert Ballard (Warner Books, 1987), pg. 196.
Taking careful note of the frame numbers at the start and end of the disclosed damage (Frames
59–149 forward), as well as the spacing between these frames, gives us a close approximation of
the overall length of the damage patterns.
‘The Sinking of the S.S. Titanic – Investigated by Modern Techniques’, March 26,
1996/December 10, 1996, Bedford and Hacket.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
APPENDIX G: THE DUFF GORDON AFFAIR
Br. 12965, 12966. This story was repeated in various newspapers on both sides of the Atlantic,
with some minor variations. The account was picked up by the London Daily News and printed in
their April 20 edition; it was this version of the story that Lady Duff Gordon was presented with
during her presence on the stand at the British Inquiry. Most of the published versions are, in the
whole, relatively consistent, but do contain a number of inaccuracies. None of these, however,
directly contradict her statements regarding the ship’s final gyrations, pertinent to our investigation.
Br. 12935–12948. Although Lady Duff Gordon did not use the word ‘invention’ personally, she
agreed with the word when it was used twice by her examiner, Mr Clement Edwards.
Two letters in particular stand out for scrutiny. Both are contained in On Board, Behe, 280–283.
The first is a letter by Lady Duff Gordon to her sister; the second is a letter from Lady Duff
Gordon to Margot Asquith, wife of Britain’s then Prime Minister, Herbert Henry Asquith. The
second letter is dated Thursday, May 16, 1912. Sir Cosmo would take the stand on Friday, May 17
and Monday, May 20, while Lady Lucy would take the stand on Monday, May 20.
Her autobiography, Discretions and Indiscretions (1932), contained three chapters pertinent to
the Titanic disaster. Although the present authors have procured a copy from Mike Poirier, the
book is not commonly available to the public. However, the full text of the Titanic-related portions
can be read online at http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/i-was-saved-from-the-titanic-lady-duffgordon~chapter-0~part-1.html.
Br. 12923.
Br. 12935, 12936.
Br. 12937.
Br. 12938.
Br. 12906–12911.
Br. 11163, 11164; 5025–5033; Hendrickson did not know Ms Francatelli’s name or her exact
connection to the Duff Gordons, but there were only two female occupants of the boat, and
Hendrickson clearly stated that it was ‘the women [who] objected’ to the idea of going back to
help anyone else.
Br. 12586.
Br. 5188–5216; 11830–11848; 12243–44; 12291–12302; 12586–12591; 12592–12668.
Indiscretions, 192.
APPENDIX H: INCIDENTS OF GUNFIRE DURING THE SINKING
Amer. 417–419.
Br. 383–393; Amer. 617; The Truth About the Titanic Ch. 6.
Amer. 1109.
American Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 1912.
Amer. 11.
Br. 17627–17640.
Amer. 1099.
Br. 10431–10437.
Washington Times, April 22, 1912.
Washington Post, April 20, 1912.
Amer. 886. Woolner mentioned this incident, in the same terms, in a private letter that was written
aboard the Carpathia on April 19, 1912. Steffansson gave accounts that corroborate Woolner’s
story.
New York Tribune, April 19, 1912.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
1.
2.
Thayer, 1940. Thayer says that this incident happened ‘on “A” deck, just under the boat deck’. On
the face of it, this seems problematic. Collapsible C did not load from A Deck. However, earlier in
his account, Thayer describes seeing the boats uncovered on ‘“A” deck’, then later going to the
deck below, i.e. the ‘lounge on “B” Deck’. The First Class lounge was on A Deck, not B Deck. It
appears that Thayer was mistakenly referring to the Boat Deck as A Deck, and was referring to
A Deck as B Deck. What he called the ‘boat deck’ must have been the roof of the Officers’
Quarters.
Daily Sketch, April 29, 1912. While Senior does not specify that the shots were fired at
Collapsible C, the facts strongly suggest this. Senior helped load the boats, and describes having
‘thrown down’ a collapsible boat from the Officer’s Quarters after all the other boats were gone.
This boat was Collapsible A, which establishes Senior’s presence on the starboard side. Senior
was unaware of how Collapsible B came to be upside-down when he climbed aboard it later. If
Collapsible B was the boat he freed, he would have known how that happened, since Lightoller
and Bride said this boat landed upside down on the boat deck after being pushed off the roof of the
Officers’ Quarters. The details Senior gave also closely match Hugh Woolner’s testimony about
the circumstances surrounding the loading of Collapsible C.
Detroit News, April 24, 1912; Echoes in the Night, Frank Goldsmith, 1991; Audio recording of a
talk given by Frank Goldsmith, transcription generously provided by Bob Godfrey. After initially
telling researchers he was rescued from the starboard side, later in his life, Frank Goldsmith
claimed to have been rescued in Collapsible D. However, details in accounts given by both he and
his mother prove they were rescued in Collapsible C. Both mention their boat getting caught on
rivets as it was being lowered, and that the occupants had to keep pushing it away from the ship’s
side. Due to the 10° list to port, Collapsible D swung away from the ship’s side, while Collapsible C
hung up against it. Mrs Goldsmith also remembered four Chinese stowaways in her boat.
Quartermaster Rowe and Bruce Ismay also placed these same four stowaways in Collapsible C.
There were approximately eight oriental passengers on the Titanic: two perished, one was rescued
from the water by Boat No. 14, one was rescued in Boat No. 13, and four were rescued in
Collapsible C.
New York Times, June 27, 1915; New York Herald, June 27, 1915. During the Limitation of
Liability proceedings, Mellors testified about this incident in front of Judge Julius Meyer in the
United States District Court. Mellors said this happened at the ‘last boat’. His own accounts
suggest that he was on the starboard side at the end. Bob Bracken’s article on Mellors at the
Encyclopedia Titanica website contains information from Second Class survivor Bertha Watt; it
confirms Mellors was near Collapsible C when it lowered, then helped with Collapsible A.
Bracken’s article is available at http://www.encyclopediatitanica.org/william-mellors.html.
Amer. 991–992.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Mrs Hoyt refers to Wilde as ‘Chief Officer Wiley’
in this article. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
For further information on possible officer suicides, please see Appendix K: Shots in the Dark: Did
An Officer Commit Suicide on the Titanic?
APPENDIX I: THE LOSS OF DECK CREW ON THE TITANIC OVER TIME
Amer. 80; Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Centennial Reappraisal. See Lester Mitcham’s crew and passenger listings in Appendix D of
that book for specific details on those lost and saved amongst the Deck Department, as well as a
listing of every passenger and crewmember that was aboard for the maiden voyage.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
Lightoller doesn’t specify that the other men were seamen. However, in the inquiries, Lightoller
explains that the lack of seamen available to help him on the port side was the result of the
Boatswain taking the men below to open the gangways; this clearly indicates that those men were
seamen. (Amer. 85) In his book, Lightoller refers to the men Nichols took below as ‘hands’, i.e.
deckhands/sailors.
The area of the gangway doors on D Deck was not flooded by 1:00 a.m. Leading Stoker Barrett
described water coming onto E Deck, one deck below D Deck, from forward just after 1:10 a.m.
It is possible that Nichols and the other six crewmembers remained below until later in the sinking,
and at some point well after that time they were overwhelmed by the flooding, or simply never
made it back up on deck. Fourth Officer Boxhall was in Boat No. 2, which was lowered away at
1:45 a.m. Fifty years after the sinking, he recalled that when Boat No. 2 rowed around the stern to
the starboard side, the gangway doors there were open. (1962 BBC radio interview) Perhaps the
crewmembers in question remained below all that time trying to organize passengers at the
gangway doors. Another possibility is that the men came back up on deck at some point after they
opened the doors, were given new orders, and thereafter were engaged exclusively on the
starboard side; thus, Lightoller may not have seen them, and simply assumed they died below.
Amer. 578.
Br. 88–112.
Br. 97–98.
Amer. 277.
Amer. 528.
Amer. 560.
James Anderson is not mentioned by name as having been in No. 3. However, Moore’s testimony
shows that there was another seaman in that boat with him (Amer. 561). Since all the other
surviving members of the Deck Department can be placed in other boats by the evidence, the
process of elimination makes it likely that he was the unnamed seaman in this boat.
Amer. 570.
Pascoe does not mention his boat number in his account of the sinking. However, he does say that
there ‘was room for forty more in the boat in which he had left’. (Western Morning News, April
29, 1912) From Jones’ testimony it is clear that there was another ‘sailor’ besides himself in No. 8,
although he does not name him. Boat No. 8 left the ship with twenty-five people aboard, leaving
forty seats unoccupied. Pascoe’s description fits this boat.
Amer. 574.
Br. 12321–12326.
Amer. 451.
Amer. 324.
Amer. 645. Bailey is not mentioned by name, but as the ‘master-at-arms’.
Br. 18115.
Forward isn’t mentioned by name as having been in this boat. Archer testified that there was
another ‘able seaman’ in No. 16 with him, (Br. 18117), and refers to this man several times as his
‘mate’. (Amer. 645). Of the surviving members of the Deck Department who cannot be placed in
another boat, Forward is the only one who Archer would have called ‘mate’; both men were in the
same watch.
Amer. 399.
Br. 403.
Br. 403–404. Harder is not mentioned by his name as having been in this boat, but is identified as
‘a window-cleaner’.
Amer. 657.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Br. 13316.
Amer. 657.
Ibid.
Amer. 636.
Br. 2775.
Amer. 652.
Ibid.
Br. 2509.
Br. 2535–2536.
Morning News, May 21st, 1912. Courtesy of Peter Engberg-Klarström.
Steward Samuel Rule testified that there was a ‘deckhand’ in No. 15, and when asked to clarify,
he agreed that he was either an Able-Bodied Seaman, or ‘an ordinary seaman’. (Br. 9621–9623)
This sailor is not mentioned by name, but by the process of elimination, appears to have been
Lookout Alfred Evans. According to Evans’ family, he stated he was in the ‘last boat lowered’.
No. 15 wasn’t the last boat lowered, but was the last of the aft starboard boats, and did have an
unidentified seaman in it, fitting Evans’ details. Information courtesy of Peter Engberg-Klarström.
Br. 15423.
Amer. 538.
Amer. 581.
Amer. 666.
Ibid.
Amer. 675.
Amer. 604.
Amer. 519.
Amer. 833–834.
Br. 1515–1518.
Amer. 91.
Amer. 666. Lamp Trimmer Hemming was rescued in Boat No. 4, but did not board it at 1:50 a.m.
He stayed and worked on the ship until just before water reached the Boat Deck around 2:15 a.m.;
he then lowered himself down a fall, and swam ‘200 yards’ to No. 4, where he was pulled in.
APPENDIX J: THE MUSIC OF THE TITANIC’S BAND
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Riverside Daily Press, January 23, 1913. However, one can’t help but wonder if Miss Hays was
familiar with Harold Bride’s widely-reported newspaper reference to ‘Autumn’ and decided to
incorporate that song into her own story.
A discussion of Chaminde’s ‘Automne’ appears in Early Radio: In Marconi’s Footsteps 1894 to
1920, by Peter Jensen, Kangaroo Press, 1995. A discussion of Bradbury’s ‘Aughton’ appears in
The Musical Times, Vol. 116, No. 1589 (July 1975), page 625, letters to the editor, ‘The Titanic
Hymn’, by Ronald Johnson. (Indeed, composer Gavin Bryars subscribed to this viewpoint when he
incorporated ‘Aughton’ as ‘Hymn IV’ in his classical composition, ‘The Sinking of the Titanic’.)
During a talk given at the University Club in Washington on November 23, 1912, Colonel Gracie
claimed that the band stopped playing an hour and a half before the ship sank. Curiously, he
mentions nothing about this in his book, only noting his belief that the band played cheerful music,
and not hymns.
Evening Banner, April 26, 1912.
New York Times, April 19, 1912, Br. 10589. Both Bride and Saloon Steward Edward Brown are
among these witnesses. Brown, who remained on board the ship until the Boat Deck submerged,
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
was asked whether the bandsmen were playing at the last, and he replied: ‘I do not remember
hearing them stop playing.’ By that time the bandsmen had ascended from A Deck to the Boat
Deck and were playing at the companionway located between the ship’s first and second funnel.
New York Times, May 31, 1912.
Western Daily Mercury, April 30, 1912.
Daily Mirror, April 30, 1912.
The Toronto World, April 20, 1912.
Seattle Daily Times, April 22 & 23, 1912.
Account written by Marjorie Newell for Walter Lord, available at the following website:
http://www.charlespellegrino.com/passengers/marjorie_robb.htm
New York Evening World, April 23, 1912.
Account written by Marjorie Newell for Walter Lord, available at the following website:
http://www.charlespellegrino.com/passengers/marjorie_robb.htm
Minneapolis Tribune, April 22, 1912.
It should be noted that ‘Londonderry Air’ was performed by the ship’s band in the Clifton Webb
film Titanic, which came out three years before Richard O’Connor’s book was published. It
seems at least possible that O’Connor might have borrowed that tune from the film without
researching the subject himself.
Daily Sketch, April 20, 1912.
Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912.
Scranton Times, April 20, 1912.
Private letter from Edwina Troutt to her friend Annie Webbers, April 19, 1912, reproduced in On
Board, Behe.
The Spectrum, April 1914. The full text of this memoir is reproduced in On Board, Behe.
See the online article ‘The Man Who Dressed as a Woman’, by George Behe at the following
URL for more details: http://home.comcast.net/~georgebehe/titanic/page4.htm.
New York Sun, April 19, 1912.
The Bulletin, April 19, 1912.
Seattle Daily Times, April 27, 1912.
Private letter from Edwina Troutt to her friend Annie Webbers, April 19, 1912, reproduced in On
Board, Behe.
Daily Sketch, April 20, 1912.
Daily Sketch, May 1, 1912.
Manchester Guardian, April 22, 1912.
New York Evening Journal, April 22, 1912.
See the online article ‘Did faith drive Titanic’s musicians?’ by Joey Butler, April 15, 2011. This
article is available online at the following URL: http://www.umc.org/site/apps/nlnet/content3.aspx?
c=lwL4KnN1LtH&b=5259669&ct=9353535
The Night Lives On, Ch. 11, by Walter Lord, 1986.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Since this account was given 19 years after the sinking, it
is possible that Ms Webber was incorporating details into her account that she read in the press;
this may have included Bride’s mention, in his famous 1912 New York Times account, of ‘Autumn’
being played.
Collier’s Weekly, May 4, 1912.
APPENDIX K: SHOTS IN THE DARK: DID AN OFFICER COMMIT SUICIDE ON THE
TITANIC?
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
This appendix is an updated, revised, and expanded version of the article ‘Shedding Light on the
Controversy: Did an Officer Commit Suicide on the Titanic?’ by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch,
published in The Titanic Commutator No. 173, 2006. An online version of this article is available
online at: http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/shots.htm
New York Morning World, April 18, 1912.
The entire Daly account is contained in James Harper’s article, ‘Dr. Frank Blackmarr’s
Remarkable Scrapbook’, published in the Titanic Commutator, 3rd Quarter 1998, and is also
available online at: http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/shots.htm.
Chicago Daily Tribune, April 20, 1912.
London Daily Telegraph, May 4, 1912.
Daily Sketch, May 4, 1912.
Washington Post, April 22, 1912.
New York Times, June 26, 1915.
Mary Daly Joyce, Eugene Daly’s daughter, recalled this during a speech at the Missouri Titanic
monument dedication at the Dickey House in Marshfield, Missouri, on April 26, 2008.
The Providence Journal, April 20, 1912.
Irish World, May 4, 1912.
Br. 2131; 2170–2171. Besides the description of the launch sequence and the deck the boats
loaded from, another detail supports the conclusion that Maggie Daly and Bertha Mulvihill were in
Boat No. 15: Bertha recalled that her boat was so heavily loaded that the gunwale was barely
above the water. No. 15, with sixty-eight aboard, was the most heavily loaded boat that night.
(‘Titanic Lifeboat Occupancy Totals’, by Bill Wormstedt and Tad Fitch, at
http://wormstedt.com/titanic/lifeboats/occupancy.pdf.) Bertha’s description is supported by
Steward Rule, also rescued in No. 15, who said that the boat was down in the water ‘right to the
gunwales’. (Br. 6618; Br. 6621)
Bertha also told her family that there was a lot of shouting from the boat launched prior to
theirs, and also a great hurry to cut the ropes; this sounds very much like the situation as Boat No.
15 nearly came down on top of No. 13. Neither Bertha nor Maggie Daly mentioned gunfire at or
near their boat, which should have been the case if they were rescued in any of the aft port boats.
Neither claimed to have been rescued in a collapsible, and Daly’s letter does not indicate that it
was a collapsible, either.
Additionally, Trimmer Cavell testified that the majority of those saved in No. 15 were Third
Class women, (Br. 4369) and that there were a lot of ‘Irish girls’ in the boat. (Br. 4371)
Since the first printing of this book, the presence of Bertha and Maggie in this boat has been
confirmed. Bertha stated in a private account that ‘we climbed ... to crowd into boat 15’, and also
“the people ... saw boat 15 lowering by their deck and ... jumped into the boat ... [they] fell on me
... I had broken ribs from it’.
Br. 6537; 6587–6590; 6648–6658.
‘Dr. Frank Blackmarr’s Remarkable Scrapbook’, published in the Titanic Commutator, 3rd
Quarter 1998.
Private letter written by Laura Francatelli on April 18, 1912. The full text of the letter is available
online at http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/Francatelli.html.
Private letter written by George Rheims on April 19, 1912. The full text of this letter is available
online at http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/rheims.html.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
Deposition of George Rheims given in the Limitation of Liability hearings on November 14, 1913.
Ibid.
Main Line Life, May 11, 1997.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
Written report of Harold Bride to the Marconi Company, written on April 27, 1912, and entered
into evidence on Day 4 of the Senate Inquiry.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Please see Appendix M: Down With the Ship? Captain Smith’s Fate for further evidence on what
happened to the Captain.
The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 3.
The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 2.
Amer. 991–992.
Please see Appendix H: Incidents of Gunfire During the Sinking, for more details on this subject.
Amer. 993.
The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 2.
Amer. 666.
Amer. 994.
Dumfries & Galloway Standard and Advertiser, May 11, 1912.
Titanic: Sinking the Myths, by Diana E. Bristow, 1995.
The Sinking of the Titanic, by Logan Marshall, 1912.
The Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 1912.
Evening Star, April 22, 1912. The full newspaper article is available online at:
http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/davis.html.
Bureau County Republican, May 2, 1912.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
The Complete Titanic, by Steven Spignesi, 1998.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912. The entire article is available online at:
http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/hyman.html.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Chicago American, April 25, 1912.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
New York Evening World, April 20, 1912.
Nearer My God to Thee: The Story of the Titanic, 1912.
The Tacoma Tribune, April 30, 1912; The Seattle Daily Times, April 30, 1912.
Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 26, 1912.
Unknown British newspaper, May 1912. The word ‘started’, supplied in the quotation, is a guess
based on the sentence structure; the original copy has a mark over the word, making it nearly
illegible. Some room for interpretation should be allowed on this word’s inclusion.
Daily Enterprise, April 20, 1912.
Amer. 1099.
New York Times, April 21, 1912.
Washington Post, April 20, 1912.
New York Herald, April 21, 1912.
Thomas Whiteley’s Titanic lecture.
New York Times, April 20, 1912.
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, April 20, 1912.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
Sinking of the Titanic and Great Sea Disasters, by Logan Marshall, 1912.
For further details on Mellors’ account, please see Appendix M: Down With the Ship? Captain
Smith’s Fate.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Daily Sketch, April 29, 1912.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
Please see Appendix M: Down With the Ship? Captain Smith’s Fate.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
New York Times, April 19, 1912. The full account is available online at:
http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/kemp.htm.
Ibid.
Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 20, 1912.
This information can be found online at the following URL:
http://www.dalbeattie.com/titanic/tihbride.htm#newinfo.
New York Herald, April 21, 1912.
Titanic: The Canadian Story, by Alan Hustak, 1998.
Washington Times, April 19, 1912.
New York Times, April 20, 1912.
Br. 3855–3857.
The Truth About The Titanic, Ch. 7; Information on the Daniel mention in the Davidson letter is
courtesy of Peter Engberg-Klarström.
New York Tribune, April 19, 1912.
Dr Dodge’s address at the Commonwealth Club, May 11, 1912.
Denver Post, April 19, 1912.
Daily Sketch, April 20, 1912.
Br. 12920–12970. For more information on the veracity of the Lady Duff Gordon’s accounts,
please see Appendix G: The Duff Gordon Affair.
Western Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. For the full account, see
http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/harris.html.
The Sinking of the Titanic, by Logan Marshall, 1912.
Amer. 1143.
The Sinking of the Titanic, by Jay Henry Mowbray, 1912. The ‘QM Moody’ accounts are
available online at http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/moody.html.
Atlanta Journal, April 21, 1912.
Daily Sketch, April 30, 1912.
Amer. 406–407.
Sinking of the Titanic and Great Sea Disasters, by Logan Marshall, 1912; The Sinking of the
Titanic, by Logan Marshall, 1912.
Since the names of the witnesses who gave these accounts is unknown, their reliability cannot be
established.
News of the World, April 21, 1912.
Liverpool Echo, April 29, 1912.
Western Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. The full account of this unknown crewmember is
available online at http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/unknown1.html.
Western Morning News, April 29, 1912. The full account is available online at:
http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/shots/unknown2.html.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Thayer, 1940.
See Appendix H: Incidents of Gunfire During the Sinking, for more details.
Anaconda Standard, May 6, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Amer. 975; The Times, April 20, 1912.
Amer. 1042.
Record of Bodies and Effects: Passengers and Crew, S.S. Titanic, No. 15, Public Archives of
Nova Scotia.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
1.
Denver Post, April 19, 1912.
Amer. 604; Amer. 675.
Br. 509.
Amer. 600.
The Semi-Monthly Magazine, May, 1912.
Paterson Morning Call, April 23, 1912.
Titanic Commutator, Vol. 16, No. 3, November 1992. Extracts from First Class passenger
Margaretta Spedden’s diary are reproduced in this issue.
Private letter from Midtsjø to his brother, April 19, 1912.
New York Times, April 22, 1912.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
L’Excelsior, April 20, 1912.
Please see Appendix M: Down With the Ship? Captain Smith’s Fate.
Northern Constitution, May 11, 1912.
The Christian Science Journal, Vol. XXX, October 1912, No. 7.
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
Information courtesy of Susanne Störmer. This subject was discussed during the 1997 Irish Titanic
Historical Society convention.
Cornish Post, May 2, 1912.
Br. 14766.
See Chapter 5 and endnotes for further details.
See Chapter 5 and endnotes for further details.
Record of Bodies and Effects: Passengers and Crew, S.S. Titanic, No. 157, Public Archives of
Nova Scotia.
Amer. 445; Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Amer. 597.
New York Times, April 19, 1912; New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Please see Chapter 5 and endnotes for details on these sightings.
Br. 14565–14568.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Record of Bodies and Effects: Passengers and Crew, S.S. Titanic, Nos 124 & 96, Public
Archives of Nova Scotia.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
The Sinking of the Titanic, by Logan Marshall, 1912.
Omaha Daily News, April 21, 1912.
Titanic: Touchstones of a Tragedy: The Timeless Human Drama Revisited through Period
Artifacts and Memorabilia, by Steve Santini, 2000.
See Bill Wormstedt’s article ‘An Analysis of the Bodies Recovered from Titanic’, which is
available at the following URL: http://www.wormstedt.com/Titanic/analysis.html.
The Sinking of the Titanic, by Jay Henry Mowbray, 1912.
Amer. 631.
Br. 10628; Br. 10650–10652.
APPENDIX L: THOMAS ANDREWS’ FATE
Amer. 750.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
Br. 6596–6600; 6642–6644; Despite Rule’s claim that Stewart was in charge of No. 15, Fireman
Frank Dymond appears to have assumed command of the boat once it reached the water.
Titanic Remembered, Madacy Entertainment, 1998. Thank you to Peter Engberg-Klarström for
pointing out this account to the authors.
Several sources list his name as ‘Charles W.N. Fitzpatrick’. However, Fitzpatrick was born in
Kilkenny, Ireland, and Irish census records specifically state that his first name was ‘Cecil’.
(http://www.census.nationalarchives.ie/reels/nai000882528/)
Western Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Account supplied by Ioannis Georgiou.
Please see Appendix M: Down With the Ship? Captain Smith’s Fate. The portion of Fitzpatrick’s
account where he says he ‘fainted’ does not necessarily mean that he lost consciousness, but
could instead imply that he was stunned and felt weak in a moment of shock, and that it took him a
bit to recover. Whatever he meant, he was not stunned for a long period; it is clear that Captain
Smith would not have told Andrews that the ship was ‘going’ if he did not think that she really was
about to go.
Liverpool Journal of Commerce, April 30, 1912.
Belfast’s Own. The details concerning Galloway’s letter to Pirrie are contained in this book. The
authors extend their appreciation to Stephen Cameron for giving permission to reference this
information.
Lillian W. Bentham, Times-Tribune, 1962. Available online Encyclopedia Titanica at:
http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/50-years-after-memory-titanic.html.
APPENDIX M: DOWN WITH THE SHIP? CAPTAIN SMITH’S FATE
Authors’ Note: This appendix is an expanded and revised version of the article: ‘Down with the
Ship: The Fate of Captain Smith, Parts 1 & 2’, by Tad Fitch, published in The Titanic Commutator,
Nos 183 and 184, 2008.
New York Times, April 20, 1912.
The Cleveland Leader, April 19, 1912; The New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912; The Chicago Daily Tribune, April 19, 1912.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
New York Herald, April 21, 1912.
Titanic: The Canadian Story, Alan Hustak, 1998.
Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 20, 1912.
Main Line Life, May 11, 1997. The article in this magazine contains excerpts from Williams’
detailed private account written for his family.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
New York Herald, April 21, 1912. Details of the other Captains and disasters in this section are as
reported in the original article.
Amer. 69–70.
Amer. 671–672.
Br. 10585–10588.
The Weekly Telegraph, May 10, 1912.
Daily Sketch, April 29, 1912. While Senior did not specify Collapsible A by name, the identity of
the craft can be established since he was unaware of how Collapsible B came to be upside-down.
If he had helped free Collapsible B, he would have known this, since Lightoller and Bride say this
boat landed upside down on the Boat Deck after being pushed off the roof. Furthermore, Senior
described seeing First Officer Murdoch fire warning shots in the air while the boats were loading,
an incident First Class Passenger Hugh Woolner described in his Senate Inquiry testimony as
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
having happened at Collapsible C. All of this strongly suggests that Senior was on the starboard
side at the time.
Deposition of Eustace Philip Snow, filed during the British Board of Trade Inquiry. Snow was
never called to testify. His deposition still exists and was recently auctioned off. Snow was saved
aboard Collapsible B. The words ‘takes to’ are an extrapolation based on context; the actual
word(s) are illegible due to a blemish on the copy presented to us for consideration. Some room for
interpretation should be allowed on the reconstruction of these two words.
Main Line Life, May 11, 1997.
Others said that they were released from the Boiler and Engine Rooms at 1:20 a.m. The current
authors have retained White’s original estimation even though we feel it is outweighed by other
eyewitnesses’ testimony.
Cleveland Press, April 20, 1912. White told this story in several press accounts. However, by the
time he wrote a private letter to the brother-in-law of the late Harland & Wolff Guarantee Group
member William Henry Marsh Parr on June 21, 1912, White’s story had changed. In the letter, he
claimed that he was in the fourth funnel when the ship split in half, and that he fell into the ocean
with the funnel. This is completely at odds with his earlier statements. White gave a deposition as
part of the British Board of Trade Inquiry, but was never called to testify. His deposition is missing
and may no longer be extant.
The Cleveland Leader, April 19, 1912.
There is a good deal of contradictory evidence relating to Robert Daniel’s method of escape. First
Class passenger Orian Davidson wrote a private letter where she mentions that he was in her
boat, No. 3. Colonel Gracie believed Daniel was saved in Boat No. 7. Daniel himself claimed to
have been rescued from the water, and other lines of evidence support his assertion. Trimmer
Patrick Dillon gave a press interview where he claimed that he and Daniel jumped overboard from
the stern. No matter which of these scenarios are accurate, Daniel would not have been near the
Bridge at the end, and would thus not have been in a position to witness Captain Smith’s fate.
New York Times, April 19, 1912; Cleveland Press, April 19, 1912.
Daily Enterprise, April 20, 1912.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Daily Sketch, April 22, 1912. The HMS Birkenhead was a British troopship which struck an
uncharted rock off Simon’s Bay, South Africa, and sank on February 26, 1852. A large number of
the crew and soldiers went down with the ship, and were said to have done so in a brave and stoic
manner.
Unidentified New York newspaper, April 20, 1912.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912; Daily Sketch, April 17, 1912.
Daily Sketch, April 25, 1912.
The Chicago Daily Tribune, April 19, 1912.
Cleveland Press, April 19, 1912.
April 27, 1912 report of Junior Marconi Operator Harold Sidney Bride to the Marconi Company,
entered into evidence on Day 4 of the United States Senate Inquiry.
Amer. 897.
New York Times, April 28, 1912.
Br. 14035–14036.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Amer. 666.
Sinking of the Titanic and Great Sea Disasters, Logan Marshall, 1912.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
New York Times, June 27, 1915; Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written
on May 9, 1912, courtesy of Brian Ticehurst. Mellors testified in the Limitation of Liability hearings
before Judge Julius M. Meyer in the United States District Court on June 26, 1915. Press
summaries indicate that he gave detailed accounts of the events at the end. Unfortunately, the
transcripts of his testimony, which could confirm the details relating to Smith, are lost and may no
longer exist.
Western Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Courtesy of Ioannis Georgiou.
Belfast’s Own.
Western Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912. Courtesy of Ioannis Georgiou.
Ibid.
Br. 10630.
New York Times, April 19, 1912. Senior gave a deposition detailing his experiences as part of the
British Inquiry, but unfortunately was never called to testify. Senior’s deposition is missing and may
no longer be extant.
Cleveland Leader, April 21, 1912. McGann was rescued aboard Collapsible B. McGann gave a
deposition for the British Inquiry, but he was not called to testify, and the deposition is missing.
New York Times, April 20, 1912.
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, April 20, 1912.
Chicago Daily Tribune, April 19, 1912.
Washington Times, April 19, 1912.
Amer. 406–407.
Atlantic City Daily Press, April 23, 1912.
Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 19, 1912.
Washington Times, April 19, 1912.
New York Times, April 20, 1912.
Daily Sketch, April 30, 1912.
Western Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
New York Evening World, April 20, 1912.
American Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 1912.
Cleveland Plain Dealer, April 20, 1912.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
Washington Herald, April 21, 1912.
Thayer, 1940.
The Truth About Titanic, Colonel Archibald Gracie, 1913, Ch. 5.
Chicago Daily Tribune, April 19, 1912.
Br. 6099. Maynard gave a deposition as part of the British Inquiry, but was not called to give
testimony. The whereabouts of his deposition, if it still exists, is unknown.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Daily Sketch, April 29, 1912.
Chicago Daily Tribune, April 21, 1912.
Amer. 628.
Daily Sketch, April 30, 1912.
Shoreman Herald, July 25, 2009.
Western Morning News, April 29, 1912.
New York Evening World, April 20, 1912.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912.
New York Times, April 21, 1912.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
London Daily Telegraph, April 29, 1912.
New York Herald, April 19, 1912.
A Night to Remember.
Private correspondence between Walter Hurst and Walter Lord, currently housed with Walter
Lord’s collection in the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich. Courtesy of Paul Lee.
‘Steerage Story’ from the diary of Carpathia passenger Doctor Frank Blackmarr. The entire Daly
account is contained in James Harper’s article, ‘Dr. Frank Blackmarr’s Remarkable Scrapbook’,
published in the Titanic Commutator, 3rd Quarter 1998.
New York Herald, April 20, 1912. McMicken did not witness these events himself, having left in a
lifeboat, possibly No. 11, sometime before the sinking.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 5.
New York Times, July 21, 1912. Captain Peter Pryal claimed that he saw Captain Smith in
Baltimore several months after the disaster. Pryalserved with Smith on the Majestic, and said that
there was no possibility that he was mistaken in his identification. Pryal claimed that after a brief
conversation, Smith bid him farewell, bought a ticket to Washington, and passed through the gate of
the railway station. Whether this account was a joke or if Pryal actually believed it is unknown.
Unless otherwise stated, the lifeboat launch times and information on which officer aided in loading
which boat are taken from ‘Titanic: The Lifeboat Launch Sequence Re-Examined’ by Bill
Wormstedt, Tad Fitch and George Behe, with contributions by Sam Halpern and J. Kent Layton,
originally published in edited form in The Titanic Commutator, No. 155, 2001. A revised and
expanded version of this article was released online in 2006, with the most recent revisions being
added in 2010. It is available at the following URL:
http://www.wormstedt.com/Titanic/lifeboats/lifeboats.htm.
APPENDIX N: THE BREAKUP
Br. 14094.
Although it would admittedly be better to find accounts from every survivor, that simply would not
seem to be a realistic or realizable achievement. The accounts about to be considered are taken
from passengers of every class, and crew of every station aboard the ship, both men and women
alike; they are also drawn from those who were close to or aboard the ship, as well as those much
farther away from the ship, in those final minutes. As the present authors went through the
collection process, turned up additional accounts, and rolled them into the mathematical calculations
we are about to present, we noticed something about the numbers: the comparable percentages of
who said what happened during the sinking (broke, didn’t break, etc.) did not alter widely. For
these two reasons, we believe that this unprecedented collection of survivor evidence is a very
representative and fair collection of the entire body of survivors.
This last reference is drawn from the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about
the disaster, preserved by the Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike
Herbold.
These two women were sisters, Miss Elizabeth Eustis and Mrs Martha (Walter B.) Stephenson.
Their joint account was given directly to Col. Archibald Gracie for publication in his 1913 book,
The Truth About the Titanic. The reference to ‘She’s broken’ can be found on page 196 of the
1913 edition.
The Titanic: End of a Dream, Wyn Craig Wade (Rawson, Wade, 1979), pg. 228.
The Auburn Citizen, April 18, 1912 (Courtesy Mike Poirier).
Described in a letter written to her father after she arrived in New York following the disaster. The
full contents of the letter can be found in On Board, Behe, 159. Originally published in
Sondmoorsposten, May 28, 1912.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
The Truth About the Titanic, Chs 3, 6.
Caroline Bonnell began to pen her account before the Carpathia arrived in New York, and she
completed it shortly thereafter. It can be read in its entirety in On Board, Behe, 209–213. Originally
published in The Decatur Review, April 19, 1912.
4.69%, to be exact. The accounts of Second Class Passenger Lawrence Beesley are interesting.
His earliest published account, given in the Toronto World of April 19, 1912 (contained in On
Board, Behe, 157–162), and many of his subsequent early accounts (contained in On Board,
Behe, 194–208) do not say anything about a breakup either way. However, in his 1912 book, The
Loss of the S.S. Titanic, Beesley said that he was aware of accounts of explosions and that the
ship broke in half. He said that he had heard of such accounts even while aboard the Carpathia.
While much of the personal narrative in his book is based heavily on his early account published in
the Toronto World, he paused in the middle of the account to tackle the reports of a breakup. He
wrote:
No phenomenon like that pictured in some American and English papers occurred—that of the
ship breaking in two, and the two ends being raised above the surface. I saw these drawings in
preparation on board the Carpathia, and said at the time that they bore no resemblance to what
actually happened.
It seems most likely that the ‘drawings’ he referred to were the famous drawings made by L.
D. Skidmore after listening to Jack Thayer’s description of the sinking. It is obvious that those
drawings – which showed the ship’s prow bursting up from beneath the surface during the breakup
– were inaccurate by any measure. It was this inaccurate portrayal of events which seemed to
have stood out so negatively to Beesley, and for good reason.
Fifth Officer Lowe, at both inquiries, gave some relatively detailed evidence about the sinking. At
the American Inquiry, he described her as rearing up to about a 75° angle and then sinking. When
asked at the British Inquiry if the ship had righted herself near the end, Lowe stated that she did
not. However, he was not specifically asked whether or not the ship broke, and thus never clearly
went on the record on the point. For this reason, the current authors have placed Lowe in the
‘didn’t specifically say’ category; even if he specifically believed that the ship had sunk intact,
however, it does not materially affect the overall sum of evidence on the point. In not including him
as saying that the ‘Titanic sank intact’, we seem to be in good company; even Walter Lord, in The
Night Lives On, did not list Lowe with Lightoller, Pitman, Gracie and Beesley.
It was said by those working on the set that the model used to depict the breakup scene was
placed at a 45° angle. A careful study of the angle depicted in the scene where the ship’s lights
fail, immediately before the breakup and where the horizon is visible for a reference, shows an
angle slightly less than that. There are a number of good sight lines to read the angle from,
including the waterline, the edges of the Boat and Promenade Decks, etc.
Due to the perspective of viewing a three-dimensional object, the angles do alter toward the
perceived vanishing point. They range from a minimum of about 37° at the Boat Deck up to a
maximum of 49° at the turn of the bilge; if one does not count the bilge line, which was slightly
tapered as the hull narrowed and probably adds to the POV angle visible in the scene, then the
average shown on film is almost precisely 40°. In the split second between when the lights begin to
fail until just before the scene cut, the angle visibly increases by about one further degree.
In a view of the side of the ship during the break, where no horizon is visible, the angle seems
greater – up to an average over 48° – but without a visible horizon, there is no reference point.
The next cut, a true ‘side on’ and close perspective showing the hull tearing apart, seems to show
the ship remaining at about the 41° angle shown in the moment after the lights fail. The final cut,
immediately following, returns to a perspective quite similar to that shown during the light failure
sequence, and shows the bow forward of the break increasing steadily from about a 42° angle.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
Thus, in finished scenes from the movie, all sightlines with a visible horizon seem to depict a
maximum 42° angle as the ship’s structure is failing.
The wave depicted in that scene is one of the details most often complained about by those with a
critical eye. While releasing the model in such an unrestrained manner certainly caused a large
wave upon final impact (in the area of the rudder and screws), the exaggerated, enormous, frothy
wave flying out from under the forward end of stern section seems to have been more the result of
cinematic special effects. We will soon be delving more deeply into the question of a wave, or lack
thereof – and why or why not it would have existed – in the narrative.
Details of the model used for the breakup and final sinking sequences, the methods of filming, etc.,
can be found in Cinefex No. 72, pgs 118–122.
It should be noted that although the conclusions from that particular investigation are widely
accepted, not everyone finds them satisfactory.
On the vessels’ Iron Plans, the staircase is clearly picked out with the handwritten notation: ‘New
stairway opening 401 [Titanic] 26/9/11 [Sept. 26, 1911]’.
‘Angles of Trim and Heel’, by Sam Halpern (The Titanic Commutator, Issue 174, pgs 104–112;
‘Finding the Apparent Floatation Pivot Point (AFPP)’, by Sam Halpern (available online at:
http://www.titanicology.com/Titanica/Finding_the_AFPP.pdf).
As the reader proceeds in reading the survivor recollections contained in this appendix, it will
quickly become obvious that it has been necessary, in some cases, to piece accounts back together
from lengthy stretches of testimony or accounts that were not given entirely in a chronological
manner. In so doing, it has at times been necessary to insert bracketed words or phrases to make
the sentences complete and understandable. This was done for two primary reasons: first, to save
space, as quoting the back and forth of testimony and questions would have taken up a great deal
of room; second, this was done to try to show clearly all of the points that any given eyewitness
gave about events in any given stage of the ship’s sinking in a condensed area, so that their full
import becomes obvious. In putting the accounts together in this manner, the present authors have
very carefully studied the context of all statements, and we have referenced the accounts back to
their primary sources. This is done so a reader may independently verify that the quotations are
accurate, in context, and have not been deliberately ‘forced’ into saying something that the original
witness did not actually refer to.
The current authors also have not included every statement from every eyewitness account that
we considered in the course of this project. Many of them are repetitive in nature, or are held in
private collections. We believe that those included are a very good representation of the overall
picture.
Br. 413–419.
Amer. 1108.
Amer. 599.
This account was quoted in The Breakup of Titanic: A Progress Report from the Marine
Forensics Panel (SD-7), by Roy F. Mengot & Richard T. Woytowich.
Barrier Miner, May 4, 1934. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
From an account of his experiences dictated by Thayer on April 20, 1912. Held in the collection of
George Behe. Account reproduced in On Board, Behe, 412–414.
This quote comes from a letter by Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden dated May 12, 1912. Permission
to quote from this letter was kindly given by Brian Ticehurst, and his permission is greatly
appreciated. The full text of the letter, from beginning to end, can also be found in On Board,
Behe, 359–361.
Western Daily Mercury, April 29, 1912.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
This theory has been arrived at after consultation with a number of Titanic researchers, including
Sam Halpern and Scott Andrews, whose input is greatly valued. After some discussion, this
consensus emerged as the most likely candidate. While the way the ship moved in those moments
is known, it should be remembered that the explanation for this chain of events is merely an
educated guess; further evidence may come to light in the future that suggests an alternative
explanation.
Br. 6040–6051. Joughin had admittedly consumed a large amount of alcohol during the sinking; it is
even possible that the ‘drink of water’ he referred to in his testimony here was further
consumption of alcohol. Interestingly, his testimony about events in those final minutes seems to be
remarkably clear-headed. However, his inebriated state should be taken into account when reading
his testimony.
The Truth About the Titanic, Chs 2, 4. The personal narrative was interrupted at the end of
Chapter 2 for some perspective from other eyewitnesses in Chapter 3, before resuming in Chapter
4.
Washington Post Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 26, 1912, available in full in On Board, Behe,
246–254.
Miss Bonnell’s account appeared in the Decatur Review, April 19, 1912, and appears in On
Board, Behe, 209–213.
From Beesley’s account published in the Toronto World of April 19, 1912. The account was
penned by Beesley before landing in New York from the Carpathia. The entire account can be
read in On Board, Behe, 157–163.
Beesley, Ch. 4.
Westmouth Independent (1912, date unknown), available in On Board, Behe, 259–260.
Br. 418, 422.
Br. 11502–11511.
Br. 3114.
Amer. 1108.
From two separate accounts given by Thayer. The first sentence comes from an account of his
experiences dictated by Thayer on April 20, 1912. Held in the collection of George Behe. Account
reproduced in On Board, Behe, 412–414. The remainder of the quotation comes from The
Evening Bulletin, April 14, 1932.
Br. 14072–14084. Instead of copying whole sections of question-and-answer testimony for this
section, certain words or phrases from the original questions are included in brackets to complete
the sentences in this quotation. This has been done primarily to show the statements without
interruption, in harmony with the format of other survivor accounts quoted in this appendix which
were not taken from the inquiries.
Amer. 620.
Amer. 841.
Voices, 161.
Amer. 818.
Amer. 116.
Amer. 610.
Amer. 339.
For clarification: the Washington Monument stands 555 feet tall, about 63% of the Titanic’s length
overall. The Eiffel Tower’s top observation deck stands some 902 feet above ground, only twenty
feet higher than the Titanic’s length overall.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Account text provided by George Behe.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Br. 20921.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 3.
Br. 14097.
Br. 6040–6051. Joughin’s inebriated state should be taken into account when reading his testimony.
Br. 6041.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2.
From Beesley’s account published in the Toronto World of April 19, 1912. The account was
penned by Beesley before landing in New York from the Carpathia. The entire account can be
read in On Board, Behe, 157–163.
Beesley, Ch. 4.
Amer. 980.
New York Sun, April 19, 1912. Available in full in On Board, Behe, 179–182.
Indiscretions.
Rhode Island Sunday Magazine, April 15, 1962. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
On Board, Behe, 406.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 7.
From Rheims’ Limitation of Liability Hearings Deposition.
Harper’s Weekly, April 27, 1912. Available in On Board, Behe, 317–319.
Voices, 161.
Br. 175–177.
New Britain Herald, April 19, 1912. Available in On Board, Behe, 175.
Amer. 599.
The Hartford Courant, April 20, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Syracuse Herald, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Democrat & Chronicle, April 15, 1931. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
East Kent Gazette, May 4, 1912. Available in On Board, Behe, 132–134.
Amer. 339.
Hudson Evening Register, April 20, 1912. Available in On Board, Behe, 143–144.
Account published in The Times in 1932, re-printed in 1985, provided by Mike Poirier.
Account from Nellie Becker published in the The Madras [India] Mail, (1868–1981), May 22,
1912
St. Nicholas Magazine, 1913. Text available in On Board, Behe, 191–193.
Washington Post Semi-Monthly Magazine, May 26, 1912. Text available in On Board, Behe,
246–254.
Manitoba Free Press, April 29, 1912. Available in On Board, Behe, 258–259.
Washington Dodge, The Loss of the Titanic. Text available in On Board, Behe, 264–277.
Hampshire Telegraph, May 3, 1912. Text available in On Board, Behe, 284.
Ilford Graphic, May 10, 1912. Text available in On Board, Behe, 327.
Brainerd Daily Dispatch, December 2, 1937. Text available in On Board, Behe, 347.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
Brooklyn Daily Eagle, April 19, 1912. Text available in On Board, Behe, 367.
Amer. 1108.
From Scarrott’s account published in The Sphere of May 25, 1912. Text available in On Board,
Behe, 386.
Br. 426.
Westmeath Independent, 1912 (unknown date). Text available in On Board, Behe, 259–260.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
It should be noted that portions of three accounts from John Thayer, Jr are given here. Each is
referenced separately. The first account was taken very shortly after the disaster, while the second
two were published in 1932 and 1940, respectively. While overall quite complementary, there are a
few variations between them. As with all survivor accounts, without a good reason to suspect
otherwise the present authors tend to view the earlier ones as less susceptible to errors or
mistakes; the same would hold true of Thayer’s accounts. One deviation is that in his 1940
recollections, the fall of the second funnel sounds as if it is connected with the breakup of the ship,
and the location of the break seems to be further forward than given in his previous accounts.
According to his 1912 account, it seems that the No. 2 funnel fell just before the breakup occurred,
but he does not necessarily connect the two events as he seemed to in his 1940 account. Either
way, it seems that the No. 2 funnel fell very close to the time of the ship’s visible breakup.
Jack Thayer’s private account, April 20, 1912. Courtesy George Behe. Available in On Board,
Behe, 413–414.
The Evening Bulletin, April 14, 1932.
Thayer, 1940.
Br. 11501–11525.
Br. 3108–3119.
Br. 3858–3869.
Br. 5674–5682. When asked pointedly if the ship had broken ‘between the third and fourth
funnels’, Scott replied in the negative, and very specifically stated that she had broken behind the
No. 4 ventilating funnel.
Br. 14097.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Amer. 541.
Amer. 621.
Amer. 630.
Amer. 638.
Amer. 839–841.
Seattle Daily Times, April 22, 23, 1912. Text available in On Board, Behe, 287–299.
Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, April (29?), 1912. Account available in On Board, Behe, 305.
Chicago Tribune, April 22, 1912.
Amer. 609–610.
Amer. 753.
This account was quoted in The Breakup of Titanic: A Progress Report from the Marine
Forensics Panel (SD-7), by Roy F. Mengot & Richard T. Woytowich.
Amer. 410–411.
From a lecture given by Whiteley, available on Encyclopedia Titanica at: http://www.encyclopediatitanica.org/thomas-whiteleys-titanic-lecture.html.
The Evening Tribune, April 23, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Jigsaw, Taylor.
Br. 4094–4102.
Br. 4154, 4174, 4175.
The Edwardian Superliners, 361–362 and 382–383. Leviathan, Frank O. Braynard, Vol. 4, pg.
363–365.
Br. 4114.
Account contained in The Truth About the Titanic.
The Washington Herald, April 19, 1912.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Br. 6359–6365.
Br. 4109.
All of this technical information has been gleaned from TTSM, Vol. 1, Chapter 17.
The question of who discovered these pieces first created an ugly outburst within the Titanic
community. The simple truth of the matter is that expeditions prior to 2005 had identified the pieces
of hull; however, no full investigation was made of their importance and how they may have fit into
the knowledge of the ship’s breakup. The 2005 expedition, which had failed to meet some of its
initial goals, seems to have shifted its concentration to these large pieces of double bottom in order
to make the most productive use of their trip.
The Breakup of Titanic: A Progress Report from the Marine Forensics Panel (SD-7), by Roy
F. Mengot, UGS, and Richard T. Woytowich, NYC College of Technology (Joint Meeting April 16,
2009), pg. 5.
The Breakup of Titanic, pg. 5–6.
International Marine Engineering, May 1912, Volume 17, pgs 198–200.
APPENDIX O: ‘J. “BRUTE” ISMAY’?
There is also no evidence that Ismay or others connected with him attempted to exert undue
influence on the Board’s process of deliberating whether or not to raise the regulations.
This is a particularly important consideration, and one that runs counter to oft-repeated legends.
For further information on how the ships were financed, and the long-term liability that they
incurred to the company, please see Olympic Class [2011], Appendix Five: ‘Financing the
Olympic Class’.
It is also important to remember that each of the ships cost approximately £1.5 million to build, and
each carried insurance of only £1 million, with the remaining risk on each being carried by the
company’s own insurance fund. In other words, if either ship was lost or considered unsalvageable,
the company would only receive partial financial compensation for that loss. Damage to the
company’s reputation and the inability to operate an effective weekly service while replacement
tonnage was financed, constructed and placed in service would have produced further damage to
the line.
Br. 18387-18395. Ismay had taken the maiden voyage of the Olympic the year before, and of
many other White Star liners before that. Some of his testimony about their conversation does not
meet facts: the ship was not short of coal, and based on her location at the time of the collision and
the admission Ismay made that they might run her at top speed on Monday or Tuesday, it is clear
that she would easily have arrived in New York on Tuesday evening; Ismay may have been trying
to ‘rewrite history’ by downplaying any question of the ship’s speed during the voyage, even
though Captain Smith was only steaming according to general practice of the time.
Many pieces of personal correspondence written before the ship sank mentioned the possibility of
arriving on Tuesday. These were later corroborated by survivors such as Elizabeth Lines,
Lawrence Beesley, and others. To see some of these accounts, please see On Board, Behe.
It is clear that the potential for, even probability of, a Tuesday night arrival was not something
concocted after the sinking to try to prove culpability on the part of Ismay or the White Star Line.
All evidence from this correspondence also indicates that the potential for a Tuesday night arrival
was a welcome concept to both passengers and crew.
The 1997 James Cameron film, Titanic, portrayed the Saturday afternoon conversation between
Ismay and Smith for the first time. An actress can even be spotted in the background in the scene,
visibly taking note of their discussion; while no actress is credited as portraying Mrs Lines in the
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
film’s credits, the Fox special Breaking New Ground clearly highlighted the attention to detail
behind the scene, and showed the actress in a close-up while discussing Mrs. Lines’ observances.
That being said, the content of the conversation in the film does not seem to closely parallel Mrs
Lines’ accounts. Ismay is portrayed as clearly pushing the Captain to do something that he did not
feel comfortable doing; yet there is no historical indication that Ismay was pushing Smith – merely
that Ismay was pleased by the information on the ship’s progress and enthusiastic about their
prospects for beating the Olympic’s maiden voyage record.
In the scene where Captain Smith visits Lightoller on the Bridge a couple of hours before the
collision, Lightoller offers a hesitant warning; Smith pauses to reflect – perhaps weighing Ismay’s
pressure to go faster? Yet Smith decides to maintain speed. Again, since there is no historical
evidence that Captain Smith was uncomfortable with the ship’s speed, Ismay’s purported influence
seems blown out of proportion.
Thayer, 1940.
For more information on the events surrounding the loading of these boats, please see Appendix H
and Appendix K.
In portraying the moment Ismay stepped aboard, the three most recognized films on the disaster
show nearby officers looking on in almost universal disgust and contempt. In S.O.S. Titanic,
Captain Smith gazes from the Bridge wing, clearly enraged, as his officers look on in surprise; in A
Night to Remember, a stunned Murdoch halts the lowering before reversing his decision and telling
the men at the falls to continue; in Cameron’s Titanic, Ismay leaps aboard seconds before the
lowering begins, Murdoch is suprrised but simply orders the craft to be lowered away. It is quite
likely that these portrayals are not far from the truth, but from a historical perspective there is no
supporting direct evidence.
It would seem that Murdoch did draw the line, however, when people attempted to sneak into the
boats and their actions caused potential risk to passengers. It would seem that Murdoch had earlier
threatened to get his gun when the Frauenthal brothers jumped into Boat No. 5; Amy Stanley also
believed that someone jumped into Collapsible C as it was being lowered away, drawing a round of
gunfire in protest. However, that man was not Ismay, as Amy believed the man had a baby aboard
the boat.
Please see the Postscript for details on Ismay’s life after the disaster.
APPENDIX P: BURIED AT SEA
Amer. 23.
Beesley, Ch. 7.
Amer. 23; Br. 25485.
Information on Brown’s account courtesy of Chris Dohany.
Daily Sketch, May 6, 1912. This account is reproduced in Carpathia, Behe.
Tramps and Ladies, Ch. 23.
The Sinking of Titanic and Great Sea Disasters, by Logan Marshall, 1912.
Daily Sketch, May 6, 1912. Account is reproduced in full in Carpathia, Behe.
New York Sun, April 19, 1912. Account is contained in Carpathia, Behe.
Amer. 408; Amer. 412.
New York Times, April 27, 1912; Br. 441; Amer. 616; Amer. 678–679.
Amer. 1108; The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 6.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 6.
Amer. 582.
Amer. 668.
Br. 3933–3934.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Amer. 794–797. Cunningham doesn’t mention Siebert by name, but both men were Bedroom
Stewards, and served together. Given the evidence that Siebert’s body was taken aboard
Carpathia, and that he died in Boat No. 4, it seems reasonable to conclude that he was the ‘mate’
referred to in Cunningham’s testimony.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 5.
Amer. 670.
New York Times, April 19, 1912.
Amer. 162.
The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 5.
Amer. 73.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
Bangor Daily Commercial, April 19, 1912.
See George Behe’s article ‘The Fate of Jack Phillips’, for an in-depth examination of the evidence,
or lack thereof, that Phillips died on Collapsible B and was buried at sea from Carpathia. This
article is available online at the following URL:
http://home.comcast.net/~georgebehe/titanic/Page13.htm.
Br. 25485.
Bangor Daily Commercial, April 19, 1912.
Triumph & Tragedy. It is claimed in this book that Lindell’s body was recovered and buried at sea
from Carpathia.
From the typed notes of August Wennerström used in his talks about the disaster, preserved by the
Wennerström family. Courtesy of Jerry Wennerström and Mike Herbold.
Cork Examiner, May 16, 1912.
Amer. 412.
Private communication with George Behe, October 18, 2011. Information relating to Willwerth is
contained in immigration papers.
APPENDIX Q: TRAPPED ‘LIKE RATS’?
Archibald Gracie, writing of one such rail and gate (The Truth About the Titanic, Ch. 2), said that
he easily vaulted over these.
Such Bostwick gates were not included in the Titanic’s original plans. However, such gates were
not always included in plans for her sisters where gates were known to exist. If they existed, the
location of these gates can only be speculated upon. Exploration within the wreck of the liner show
no gates along accessible portions of Scotland Road on E Deck.
Br. 19949.
Br. 3288.
On Board, Behe 313.
It is conceivable that there were yet others within the Entrance at the time who did not have time
to make it on the deck by the time the ship took her head-first plunge. This is apparently the basis
for the scenes in the 1997 film, where crew and Third Class passengers alike are trapped within
the Grand Staircase and Entrance as the water floods into the area. The historical possibility that
others were still within the Entrance at the time of the plunge makes the scene in the film even
more devastating to watch.
Although there is not enough room for all of the passenger accounts touching upon this subject to
be included here, some of them are found within the narrative of Chapters 4 and 5. The present
authors would recommend that the reader refer to Appendix J: The Question of Locked Gates, of
Centennial Reappraisal for further details on the subject.
8.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
See Bill Wormstedt’s article ‘An Analysis of the Bodies Recovered from the Titanic’, for the full
breakdown of the bodies recovered, online at http://wormstedt.com/Titanic/analysis.html.
APPENDIX R: THE CALIFORNIAN AFFAIR
The exact number reported by those on the Titanic varies, but the generally accepted number
would fallsomewhere between six and twelve.
Signed statement by Apprentice James Gibson to Captain Lord, April 18, 1912.
Br. 7829.
Br. 7650, 7651.
Br. 7579; 8008–8012. While Second Officer Stone would not state with certainty that the lights
were rockets, Apprentice James Gibson thought that they were.
Br. 6931–6948.
Please see Appendix D: What Time Is It? for further details.
Amer. 715.
Amer. 720. Both the position and time estimates were offered into evidence by Captain Lord
himself.
Olympic Class [2011], Appendix 8.
For further information on the Californian/Titanic incident, please see Olympic Class, [2011],
Appendix 8; Centennial Reappraisal, Chapter 10; articles by Sam Halpern available through his
web site, www.titanicology.com.
POSTSCRIPT:
Pawtucket Times, May 22, 1912. Courtesy Mike Poirier.
Worcester Telegram, April 20, 1912.
All of the details relating to Abbott’s post-sinking life are as presented in the article ‘The Mystery
of Rhoda Abbott Revealed, Unraveling a Titanic Enigma’, by Robert Bracken, 2004. This article is
available online at the following URL: http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/rhoda-abbott.html.
840 Fifth Avenue, across from Central Park.
New York Times, March 28, 1940.
New York Times, August 15, 1912
Ibid.
New York Times, March 28, 1940.
Amer. 1140–1141.
City’s Unsung Titanic Hero, by Fred Leigh, February 26, 1987. This article is located online at the
following URL: http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/citys-unsung-titanic-hero.html
The entire interview is available online: http://www.bbc.co.uk/archive/titanic/5049.shtml.
Denver Post, October 28, 1932; Molly Brown: Unraveling the Myth. The True Life Story of
the Titanic’s Most Famous Survivor, by Kristen Iversen, 1999.
New York Times, April 21, 1912.
Harold Sidney Bride Research Summary, by Scott Anderson, 1999. This summary, with a good
amount of detail about Bride’s post-Titanic career and life is available at the following URL:
http://www.hf.ro/harry_snk.htm.
Southern Star, February 7, 1998.
Cork Examiner, May 7, 1912.
The Evening World, April 22, 1912; Irish American, May 4, 1912.
Claim filed in the Limitation of Liability hearings, January 4, 1913; New York Times, June 26, 1915.
Booklet of the American Red Cross Relief Fund, Case Number 99, 1913; Eugene Daly – By His
Daughter, by Marion K. Joyce. This entire article is on the Encyclopedia-Titanica website at the
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
following URL: http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/eugene-daly-his-daughter.html.
Information courtesy of the family of Bertha Mulvihill.
Br. 17479–17480.
Southampton Echo, January 11, 1965; New York Times, January 12, 1965; Voices.
Voices. Portions of the Fleet letters are reproduced in the book cited above, and are published in
full in the article ‘Remembering Frederick Fleet’, The Titanic Commutator, Vol. 17, No. 1, 1993.
Southampton Echo, January 11, 1965; New York Times, January 12, 1965.
Final Report of the British Inquiry.
Information courtesy of Randy Bryan Bigham.
New York American, April 22, 1935.
Information courtesy of Randy Bryan Bigham.
Washington Times, April 18, 1912.
New York Times, December 5, 1912.
The Times, April 20, 1912.
New York Times, May 4, 1913.
New York Times, December 5, 1912. Gracie’s death certificate lists the cause of death as a
diabetic coma, and reports its duration.
Additional information in this section is as reported in The Truth About the Titanic.
Amer. 451–453.
Unless otherwise noted, all details of Hichens’ post-sinking life are drawn from Phil Gowan’s
article ‘Whatever Happened to Robert Hichens?’ This article is available at the following URL:
www.titanic-titanic.com/article_phil_gowan_bio_robert_hichens.shtml.
Amer. 959.
New York Times, April 19, 1912; New York Times, October 19, 1937.
For more details on this portion of Ismay’s life, please see Appendix O: ‘J. “Brute” Ismay’?
Br. 18866–18867.
Final Report of the British Inquiry.
The Times, October 18, 1937; Wade, Ch. ‘Feuilleton’.
The Times, October 18, 1937; New York Times, October 19, 1937; Wade, Ch. ‘Feuilleton’.
Titanic Survivor, Ch. 20.
‘Violet’s Barren White Star Wedding’, by Senan Molony, 2011. This article is available at the
following URL: http://www.encyclopediatitanica.org/violets-barren-white-star-wedding.html.
Titanic Survivor, Ch. 20.
Paterson Evening News, December 10, 1956.
Titanic & Other Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935.
This interview is available online at: http://www.bbc.co.uk/archive/titanic/5047.shtml.
The remainder of the information relating to Lightoller’s life is drawn from: Titanic & Other
Ships, C. H. Lightoller, 1935; The Odyssey of C.H. Lightoller, by Patrick Stenson, 1984; and
information courtesy of the Royal Navy Museum, and Inger Sheil.
Amer. 386.
Wade, Ch. 13.
The description of this event and the engraving on Lowe’s watch are gleaned from the profile of
Lowe on the BBC North West Wales Public Life website, which can be found at the following
URL: http://www.bbc.co.uk/wales/northwest/halloffame/public_life/captainlowe.shtml.
Wade, Ch. ‘Feuilleton’.
Private letter from William Mellors to Dorothy Ockenden written on May 9, 1912, courtesy of
Brian Ticehurst.
New York Times, June 26, 1915.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
The forerunner of the U.S. House of Representatives Un-American Activities Committee.
Unless otherwise noted, the remainder of the details of Mellors’ post-sinking life are drawn from
Robert Bracken’s article ‘William J. Mellors, A Survivor Emerges From the Mists of Time’. This
article is available at the following URL: http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/william-mellors.html.
Westmeath Independent, April 20, 1912.
‘Uncle Walter Survives Titanic’, by David Cowin, 2010. This article by one of Nichols’ nephews is
available online at the following URL: http://www.hardscrabble.ca/?q=node/289.
Unless otherwise noted, all information since the previous endnote citation in the main text is
courtesy of Howard Nichols, the only grandson of Walter Nichols. The authors would like to
express their gratitude to Howard for generously sharing his wealth of knowledge about his
grandfather’s life and career with us, and for allowing us to include this information in our book.
Howard, a retired Occupational Skills Trainer – both as a Paramedic Instructor with the NHS
Ambulance Service and then as a Mobile Training Unit Instructor with the RNLI Lifeboats – has
travelled to over 100 countries. He is currently a professional ‘after dinner’ speaker, covering most
of the southern United Kingdom. He gives highly interesting talks on a variety of topics, including
his travels, and an excellent presentation on his grandfather entitled ‘The Mysterious Life of
Walter Henry’. Interested parties are encouraged to contact him at speaker@howardnichols.me.uk, and to visit his website at the following URL: http://www.howard-nichols.me.uk/
‘Pitman’s Own Private Iceberg’, by Senan Molony. This article is available at the following URL:
http://www.encyclopedia-titanica.org/pitmantitanic-iceberg.html.
Information courtesy of Brian Ticehurst.
Letter from Pitman to Walter Lord, April 7, 1955, courtesy of Paul Lee.
Deposition of George Rheims in the Limitation of Liability hearings, submitted November 14, 1913.
The information on Imanita Shelley and Lutie Parrish’s post-disaster lives is drawn from the bio
entries of both ladies submitted by Phil Gowan to the Encyclopedia-Titanica website; information
uncovered by, and posted on the ET message boards by Phil Gowan; information courtesy of Arne
Mjaland; and on information posted on Genealogy.com.
New York Times, June 25, 1915.
Philadelphia Inquirer, September 23, 1945.
Philadelphia Inquirer, June 26, 1977.
The South Bend Tribune, April 19, 1998; additional information courtesy of Jerry Wennerström.
The Times, January 17, 1914.
All additional details are as per information on the official website about Whiteley, which is
maintained and run by his descendants. The URL is: http://tomwhiteley.info/index.html.
The Sun, May 13, 1912; The New York Times, May 13, 1912; The San Francisco Call, May 13,
1912.
N
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
o book – particularly one this complex – is simply the result of the person
or persons listed on its cover. Literally dozens of individuals connected
with the Titanic took the time to help us put this project together. Without their
assistance, it would not be what it is now.
First, special thanks are due to George Behe, who has researched the
Titanic and the people aboard her for many years, and who served as a past
Vice-President of the Titanic Historical Society. Not only was he kind enough
to supply us with research materials that so few have ever had access to
before, but he was ever-available to help us as we went along, and to offer
insights and suggestions into improving the historical narrative. He was also
kind enough to supply a wonderful Introduction for the book for us. George,
we owe you a case of Mountain Dew.
Special mention and thanks should also be given to Mike Poirier, a
maritime researcher for many years who has generously provided us with
dozens of first-hand survivor accounts – and photographs – to use in this
volume. We were positively staggered at the treasure-trove of material he was
willing and able to provide us with, and without his help, this book’s pages
would be far less interesting and fresh.
We would also like to give special thanks to Sam Halpern, who has done
so much to bring the history of the Titanic – particularly on navigational and
timing matters – into clear focus. Not only did he share his research with us to
help us get things just right, but he was also always available so that we could
bounce ideas off of him. Behind the scenes, we have written volumes of
correspondence in trying to sort out where all the pieces of this puzzle lie.
Sam was always quite happy to have us play ‘devil’s advocate’ and argue
against our first conclusions, all for the sake of making sure that we were all
moving on the right track. Also a special thanks for suggesting the book’s title!
Bruce Beveridge and Scott Andrews, the most widely acknowledged
technical researchers of the Titanic, were always available to guide us
through thorny technical issues. Daniel Klistorner was kind enough to share
some of his more significant discoveries of the ship’s history with us,
including those from his own book, Titanic in Photographs, before that book
hit shelves. His generosity and assistance are greatly valued. Mark Chirnside
was also ever-ready to share information and thoughts with us.
Mark Petteruti deserves a special thank you for his help and generosity
over the years, and for being willing to share photographs and information
relating to his grandmother Bertha Mulvihill. We owe Mark, his brother Joe
Petteruti, and their entire family thanks for their assistance. Thanks are also
owed to Howard Nichols, for generously providing images and information
relating to his grandfather Walter Nichols’ life and career.
Thanks are owed to our Editor at Amberley, Campbell McCutcheon, for
considering yet another Titanic book for publication, and for generously
providing photographs and assistance with the book.
Many others supplied us with additional accounts or photographs for use.
These include (in alphabetical order of their last names): Henry Aho, Jonas
Anderssén, Mark Baber, Fiona Nitschke Beckwith, Randy Bryan Bigham,
Dave Billnitzer, Bob Bracken, Stephen Cameron, Peter Davies-Garner,
Shelley Dziedzic, Richard Edkins, Peter Engberg-Klarström, John Feeney,
Dave Fredericks, Paul Fryer, Ioannis Georgiou, Bob Godfrey, Phil Gowan,
James Harper, Mike Herbold, Paul Lee, Don Lynch, Arne Mjaland, Ron
Moody, Samuel Scott Murdoch, Daniel Parkes, Parks Stephenson, Inger Sheil,
Jonathan Smith, Brian Ticehurst, Jerry Wennerström, Geoff Whitfield, and
Quincy Norris Williams. A special thanks to Don Lynch for his
comprehensive list of suggestions on our first edition.
Tad Fitch would like to thank: I would like to thank my coauthors for all
of their hard work on this volume, and for making the experience of working
on and putting the manuscript together a pleasurable one. A good deal of
thanks are owed to my wife Jackie for her patience as I spent many hours and
long nights with another lady, Titanic, over the past few years, as I worked on
this project. A special thank you to my father Jerry Fitch, brother Jason, and
friend Marty Beauchamp for encouraging my interest in history and writing
over the years. A general thank you to the rest of my family and friends for
their support as well.
J. Kent Layton would like to thank: My dad for trusting me with his
treasured copy of A Night to Remember and buying a 1/350-scale model of
the great liner to build with me – both when I was only four years old. He
truly started a lifelong obsession; my mom for giving me the writing skills and
for all the proofreading over the years; Elyse for her general support; for my
buddies Andrew (and now Yeni, too!), Craig (and Amy & the little tyke), and
Aaron (and Mic & fam); all of my family and friends; to James Cameron and
James Horner for helping bring Titanic back to life (although I still haven’t
met Kate Winslet, unfortunately). Thanks to Tad and Bill for making this an
enjoyable team effort. Finally: in memory of Ed Thompson, Thomas Earl
Stott, and Barb Withers, who passed away while work on the First Edition of
this book was in progress; and to composer John Barry, who fired my
imagination through his score for Raise the Titanic and so many other
wonderful films.
Bill Wormstedt would like to thank: First I would like to thank George
Behe, for years ago instructing me on the right way on doing research into the
Titanic… and the wrong way to avoid! Thanks to my dad, for giving me an
interest in the sea, and in 1957, showing me around his Coast Guard ship, the
Escanaba (WHEC 64) in New Bedford, Mass. Thanks also to Kent and Tad,
for helping make this project a reality. And finally, thanks to my wife Nancy
for accepting my Titanic hobby, and giving up time with me while I worked
on it.
If you contributed to this volume, and somehow in this great mix your
name his slipped through the cracks of our list of acknowledgments, we do
apologize. If you kindly remind us of the omission, then we will certainly add
your name to the list in future editions.
Finally, although we have attempted to present the most accurate history of
the Titanic yet written, we are sure that some mistakes managed to slip
through the cracks. These mistakes are ours and ours alone, and should be
attributed to no one else.

PHOTO CREDITS
Authors’ Collection: 6, 13, 16 (all except lower left), 17, 22, 27 (top left),
28 (top right), 29 (lower left), 34 (top right), 37 (btm left), 40, 42 (left), 43
(middle), 44 (btm left), 46 (right), 47 (lower left), 52 (top left), 54, 59 (top
right), 64 (middle left), 67 (right), 70 (top left and right), 74 (top and lower
right), 76, 78 (map by J. Kent Layton), 79, 80 (map by J. Kent Layton), 81
(top), 83 (top left, third row), 86 (btm, map by J. Kent Layton), 87 (top left,
map by J. Kent Layton), 90 (top), 91 (second row, center), 92 (top and
center), 93 (top left), 93 (btm), 95 (second row, map by J. Kent Layton, and
btm), 98 (btm left), 101 (btm row), 102 (btm left), 108 (right), 111 (upper
right), 117 (top left), 122 (map by J. Kent Layton), 125 (btm right), 129 (top
row, second from right and right), 139 (right), 141 (upper), 142 (right), 145,
152 (right), 157, 167, 174 (left), 175 (top), 184 (btm left), 185 (btm right),
186 (btm left), 188, 190, 193 (btm left), 202, 214, 217, 224, 232, 241, 243
(right), 245, 251, 253 (btm), 254, 258 (btm right), 260 (lower left), 263, 265
(btm right), 268 (right), 271 (all except top left), 274 (top left), 275, 278
(btm), 292, 299, 311, 318, 370
Bruce Beveridge Collection: 8, 19 (Plans Copyright Bruce Beveridge), 26
(top left), 27 (top right), 31 (lower), 37 (right), 38 (right), 42 (right), 44 (third
row), 57 (lower right and btm left), 58 (all except top left), 59 (top left), 60
(top left), 62, 64 (top), 68 (top), 78 (btm left), 81 (btm), 82, 84 (top right), 87
(top right), 97 (top left), 98 (top right), 100 (top and btm left), 101 (top right,
second row), 102 (top right and btm right), 144 (btm), 176 (lower), 184-185
(with details by J. Kent Layton), 200, 204, 205, (296 lower, with
modifications by J. Kent Layton), 379, 442-447 (Plans Copyright Bruce
Beveridge)
J&C McCutcheon Collection: 2 (restoration by J. Kent Layton), 4, 18 (top
right), 21 (top left), 23, 24 (lower right), 30 (btm left), 32 (center), 33 (btm
right), 34 (top left and btm right), 35, 36 (right), 38 (left), 41, 43 (top), 47 (top
right), 50 (lower), 52 (btm left), 57 (top left and right), 60 (top right), 72, 78
(restoration by J. Kent Layton), 78 (btm right), 83 (2nd row, left), 84 (top left,
2nd row), 85 (btm), 86 (top), 88 (2nd and 3rd rows, second from right), 95
(top), 108 (left), 140, 149 (top), 181, 186 (top right), 195, 211, 234, 236, 250,
253 (top and middle), 256, 261 (top), 266, 267 (top), 272, 276, 337, 435
(btm)
Jonathan Smith Collection: 14, 21 (btm right), 24 (top right), 25 (lower), 26
(top right), 27 (all except top left and top right), 28 (all except top right), 29
(all except lower left), 30 (top right), 33 (all except btm right), 36 (left), 37
(top left), 43 (btm), 44 (top, second row, and btm right), 47 (center), 51, 52
(center), 58 (top left), 60 (btm left and right), 64 (btm left), 65, 66 (top left
and right), 67 (left), 68 (btm), 69 (btm), 77, 80 (btm), 83 (top right, second
row right), 84 (btm left), 85 (top row), 86 (middle), 87 (btm left), 91 (top), 97
(all except top left), 98 (top left), 99 (middle and btm), 101 (top left), 103,
121, 163, 170 (right), 174 (right), 175 (btm), 186 (top left), 210, 233, 235,
236, 260 (top left and right), 268 (left), 270, 274 (center), 284, 298, 435 (top)
Daniel Klistorner Collection: 31 (top), 32 (all except center), 34 (btm left),
64 (middle right), 95 (second from btm), 104 (top right), 105 (top), 111 (btm
left), 120 (left), 124, 128 (top), 131 (left), 135, 141 (lower), 142 (left), 149
(btm row), 192, 207, 222 (modification by J. Kent Layton), 230
George Behe Collection: 66 (lower right), 70 (btm right), 88 (top left), 104
(top left), 110, 113, 120 (right), 128 (btm), 132, 143 (btm left), 162 (left), 173
(left), 176 (top), 249, 258 (btm left), 261 (btm), 265 (top right), 267 (btm left)
Ioannis Georgiou Collection: 21 (top right), 25 (top), 46 (all except left,
second from right and right), 47 (top left), 50 (top), 52 (top right), 71 (right),
83 (btm left), 88 (2nd & 3rd rows, all except second from right), 92 (btm), 93
(top right), 94 (top row, left, second from left, and second from right), 114,
116, 129 (top row, left and second from left), 143 (btm right), 151, 155, 158,
170 (left), 243 (left)
Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division: 12, 16 (lower left),
24 (top left), 30 (top left, top center, and lower left / Daniel Klistorner
Collection), 39, 70 (btm left), 91 (second row, left and right), 94 (second
row), 112, 125 (btm left), 126, 129 (btm left), 131 (right), 139 (left), 143
(top), 144 (top), 156, 169 (Courtesy Daniel Klistorner), 193 (top right), 257,
258 (top), 259, 262, 265 (top left), 267 (btm right), 273, 368
Mike Poirier Collection: 89, 90 (btm), 94 (top row, right), 95 (btm), 105
(btm); National Archives, Courtesy Mike Poirier: 46 (left), 46 (second from
right); National Archives and Records Administration, Courtesy Mike
Poirier: 69 (top left and right), 71 (left), 96, 98 (btm right), 99 (top), 111 (btm
right), 117 (right two), 118, 129 (btm right), 138 (left, center), 152 (left)
Arne Mjaland Collection, Courtesy George Behe: 104 (lower right)
Georgiou/Klistorner/Chirnside/Layton Collection: 18 (top left), 20, 73,
198, 353
Chirnside/Klistorner/Layton Collection: 59 (btm left), 441
National Archives & Records Administration: 66 (lower left), 366
Courtesy Ron Moody: 59 (top center)
Courtesy Phil Gowan: 71 (center), 162 (right)
Courtesy Shelley Dziedzic: 173 (right), 278 (top), 375
Courtesy Public Archives of Nova Scotia: 271 (top left)
Courtesy Howard Nichols: 376 (btm)
Courtesy Cyril Codus: 296 (top, with modifications by J. Kent Layton), 340-
342 (with modifications by J. Kent Layton)
Courtesy Dave Fredericks: 138 (right)
Mark Petteruti Collection: 102 (top left), 376 (top)
Painting by Robert Lloyd: Cover, 182
Color Section:
Jonathan Smith Collection: 001, 027-034, 039, 054; Authors’ Collection:
002, 003, 005-007, 023, 024, 026, 041, 055; Daniel Klistorner Collection:
004 (inset J&C McCutcheon Collection); Courtesy Henri Aho: 008-010,
014-017, 020, 021; Courtesy Jonas Anderssén: 011-013; Courtesy White
Swan Hotel: 018, 019, 022; George Behe Collection: 025, 035-038, 044,
047, 050-053; Courtesy Cyril Codus: 043; Courtesy Peter Davies-Garner:
042, 056; J&C McCutcheon Collection: 045; Trevor Powell Collection:
046, 048; National Archives & Records Administration: 040; Painting by
Robert Lloyd: 049; Courtesy Paul Fryer: 057-066

General arrangement plans of the Titanic, drawn by Bruce Beveridge.

J. KENT LAYTON became fascinated with the Titanic when he was first
learning to read. His fascination with the subject never waned, and what was
once a hobby soon became a serious study and analysis of the history of the
Titanic and other great Atlantic liners. His experience in the field now totals
over two decades. He has authored critically acclaimed books such as
Lusitania: An Illustrated Biography, The Edwardian Superliners: A Trio of
Trios, Transatlantic Liners; his next work is the forthcoming The Unseen
Mauretania (1907): The Ship in Rare Illustrations. He lives in the Finger
Lakes region of Central New York, and divides his time between his writing
and his work as a piano tuner.
TAD FITCH has researched the Titanic and maritime history for over two
decades. He has written numerous articles related to Titanic that have been
published in the Titanic Historical Society’s journal The Titanic Commutator,
and online at Bill Wormstedt’s Titanic and Encyclopedia Titanica. He, along
with George Behe and Bill Wormstedt, co-authored the landmark article,
“Titanic: The Lifeboat Launching Sequence Re-Examined”. He was a coauthor of Report Into the Loss of SS Titanic: A Centennial Reappraisal and
the recently published Into the Danger Zone: Sea Crossings of the First
World War.Tad was born in northeast Ohio, and works in the field of
psychology.When not writing, he enjoys scuba diving and traveling.
BILL WORMSTEDT first became interested in the Titanic after reading Walter
Lord’s A Night to Remember in junior high school. He discovered the online
Titanic community in 1995, and soon started commenting and writing about
the Titanic. His articles have been published in THS’s The Titanic
Commutator, Encyclopedia Titanica, and his own web site, Bill Wormstedt’s
Titanic. With Tad Fitch and George Behe, he co-wrote The Lifeboat
Launching Sequence Re-Examined, and is one of eleven co-authors of Report
Into the Loss of SS Titanic: A Centennial Reappraisal. Bill is a retired
computer programmer who resides in Seattle, Washington.
