
1
ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.htmlStephen Baxter The Time Ships To my wife Sandra, and the memory of H. G. Editor's Note The attached account was given to me by the owner of a small second-hand bookshop, situated just off theCharing Cross Road inLondon . He told me it had turned up as a manuscript in an unlabeled box, in a collection of books which had been bequeathed to him after the death of a friend; the bookseller passed the manuscript on to me as a curiosity—"You might make something of it"—knowing of my interest in the speculative fiction of the nineteenth century. The manuscript itself was typewritten on commonplace paper, but a pencil note attested that it had been transcribed from an original "written by hand on a paper of such age that it has crumbled beyond repair." That original, if it ever existed, is lost. There is no note as to the manuscript's author, or origin. I have restricted my editing to a superficial polishing, meaning only to eliminate some of the errors and duplications of a manuscript which was evidently written in haste. What are we to make of it? In the Time Traveler's words, we must "take it as a lie—or a prophecy... Consider I have been speculating upon the destinies of our race until I have hatched this fiction..." Without further evidence, we must regard this work as a fantasy—or as an elaborate hoax—but if there is even a grain of truth in the account contained in these pages, then a startling new light is shed, not merely on one of our most famous works of fiction (if fiction it was!), but also on the nature of our universe and our place in it. I present the account here without further comment. Stephen Baxter January 1995ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html Dark Night [1] Time Traveling There are three Dimensions of Space, through which man may move freely. And time is simply aFourth Dimension: identical in every important characteristic to the others, except for the fact that our consciousness is compelled to travel along it at a steady pace, like the nib of my pen across this page. If only—I had speculated, in the course of my studies into the peculiar properties of light—if only one could twist about the four Dimensions of Space and Time—transposing Length with Duration, say—then one could stroll through the corridors of History as easily as taking a cab into theWest End ! The Plattnerite embedded in the substance of the Time Machine was the key to its operation; the Plattnerite enabled the machine to rotate, in an uncommon fashion, into a new configuration in the framework of Space and Time. Thus, spectators who watched the departure of the Time Machine—like my Writer—reported seeing the machine spin giddily, before vanishing from History; and thus the driver—myself—invariably suffered dizziness, induced by centrifugal and Coriolis forces which made it feel as if I were being thrown off the machine. But for all these effects, the spin induced by the Plattnerite was of a differentquality from the spinning of a top, or the slow revolution of the earth. The spinning sensations were flatly contradicted, for the driver, by the illusion of sitting quite still in the saddle, as time flickered past the machine—forit was a rotation out of Time and Space themselves. As night flapped after day, the hazy outline of the laboratory fell away from around me, so that I was delivered into the open air. I was once more passing through that future period in which, I guessed, the laboratory had been demolished. The sun shot like a cannonball across the sky, with many days compressed into a minute, illuminating a faint, skeletal suggestion of scaffolding around me. The scaffolding soon fell away, leaving me on the open hill-side. My speed through time increased. The flickering of night and day merged into a deep twilight blue, and I was able to see the moon, spinning through its phases like a child's top. And as I traveled still faster, the cannonball sun merged into an arch of light, spreading across space, an arch which rocked up and down the sky. Around me weather fluttered, with successive flurries ofsnow white and spring green marking out the seasons. At last, accelerated, I entered a new, tranquil stillness in which only the annual rhythms of the earth itself—the passage of the sun-beltABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html Nebogipfel had touched Moses's fingers with his own, hairless palm. "I am sorry." Moses rubbed his hand, as if trying to wipe it clean. "Your touch," he said. "It's so—cold."He stared at Nebogipfel as if seeing him, in all his strangeness, for the first time. Nebogipfel apologized again. "I did not mean to startle you. But—" "Yes?" I said. The Morlock reached out with one worm-like finger, and pointed at the slab of Plattnerite."Look." With Moses, I bent down and squinted into the illuminated slab. At first I could make out nothing but the speckled reflection of the sodium bulb, a sheen of fine dust on the surface of the glass slides... and then I became aware of a growing light, a glow from deep within the substance of the Plattnerite itself: a green illumination that shone as if the slide was a tiny window into another world. The glow intensified further, and evoked glittering reflections from the test tubes and slides and other paraphernalia of the laboratory. We retired to the dining-room. It was now long hours since the fire had died, and the room was growing chilly, but Moses did not show any awareness of my discomfort. He, supplied me with another brandy, and I accepted an offer of a cigar; Nebogipfel asked for some clear water. I lit up my cigar with a sigh, while Nebogipfel watched me with what I took to be blank astonishment, all his acquired human mannerisms forgotten! "Well, sir," I said, "when do you intend to publish these remarkable findings?" Moses scratched his scalp and loosened his gaudy tie. "I'm not certain," he said frankly. "What I have amounts to little more than a catalogue of observations of anomalies, you know, of a substance whose provenance is uncertain. Still, perhaps there are brighter fellows than me out there who might make something out of it learn how to manufacture more Plattnerite, perhaps..." "No," Nebogipfel said obscurely. "The means to manufacture radio-active material will not existfor another several decades." Moses looked at the Morlock curiously, but did not take up the point. I said bluntly, "But you've no intention of publishing." He gave me a conspiratorial wink—another grating mannerism!—and said, "All in good time. ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html " 'Eighty-eights'?" "The Germans have an eight-point-eight centimeter Flat 36 anti-aircraft gun—pretty useful as a field gun and anti 'Naut, as well as its main purpose: good bit of design... Anyway, if your bomber pilot can get in under such flak he can pretty much dump what he likes into the guts of an un-Domed city." "And the results—after six more years of all this?" He shrugged. "There's not much in the way of cities left, I suppose. Not in Europe, anyway." We reached the vicinity of South Hampstead, I estimated. Here, we broke through a line of trees into a clearing. This was a circular space perhaps a quarter-mile across, but it was not natural: thetree-stumps at its edge showed how the forest had been blasted back, or cut away. Even as we approached, I could see squads of bare-chested infantrymen hacking their way further into the undergrowth with saws and machetes, extending the space. The earth in the clearing was strippedof undergrowth and hardened by several layers of palm fronds, all stamped down into the mud. At the heart of this clearing sat four of the great Juggernaut machines which I had encountered before, in 1873 and 1938. These beasts sat at four sides of a square a hundred feet across, immobile, their ports gaping like the mouths of thirsty animals; their anti-mine flails hung limp and useless from the drums held out before them, and the mottled green and black coloration of their metal hides was encrusted with guano and fallen leaves. There were a series of other vehicles and items of material scattered around the encampment, including light armored cars, and small artillery pieces mounted on thick-wheeled trolleys. This, Gibson gave me to understand, would be the site of a sort of graving-yard for time-traveling Juggernauts, in 1944. Soldiers worked everywhere, but when I walked into the clearing beside Gibson, and with the limping Nebogipfel leaning against me, to a man the troopers ceased their laboring and stared at us with undiluted curiosity. We reached the courtyard enclosed by the four 'Nauts. At the center of this square there was a white-painted flag-pole; and from this a Union Flag dangled, gaudy, limp and incongruous. A series of tents had been set up in this yard; Gibson invited us to sit on canvas stools beside the grandest of these. A soldier—thin, pale and evidently uncomfortable in the heat—emerged from one of the 'Nauts. I took this fellow to be Gibson's batman, for the Wing Commander ordered him to bring us some refreshment. The work of the camp proceeded all around us as we sat there; it was a hive of activity, as military sites always seem endlessly to be. Most of the soldiers wore a full kit of a jungle-green twill shirt and trousers with anklets; on their heads they had soft felt hats with puggrees of light khaki, or else bush hats of (Gibson said) an Australian design. They wore their divisional insigniasewn into their shirts or hats, and most of them carried weaponry: leather bandoliers for small-arms ammunition, web pouches, and the like. They all bore the heavy epaulets I remembered ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.htmlbones were too scattered and broken, and my anatomical understanding too imprecise, for me to be sure of my identification. I have also returned to that ill-lit and sloping gallery which contains the hulking corpses of great machines, for this has served me as a mine for improvised tools of all descriptions—and not just weapons, as was my first use of it. I spent some time on one machine which had the appearance of an electrical dynamo, for its condition was not too ruinous to look at, and I entertained fantasies of starting it up, and lighting such of the broken globes which hang from that chamber'sceiling as would take a current. I calculated that that blaze of electric light, and the noise of the dynamo, would send the Morlocks fleeing as nothing else!—but I have nothing in the way of fuel or lubricants, and besides the small parts of the hulk are seized up and corroded, and I have perforce abandoned that project. In the course of my exploration of the Palace I came across a new exhibit which caught my fancy. This was close to the gallery with the model tin mine I had observed before, and it appeared to be a model of a city. This exhibit was finely detailed and so large it filled most of a chamber by itself, and the whole thing was protected by a sort of pyramid of glass, from which I had to wipe away centuries of dust to see. This city was evidently constructed far in my own future, but even the model was so ancient here in this sunset Age that its bright colors had faded at the dust-filtered touch of sunlight. I imagined this town might be a descendant of London, for Ithought I saw the characteristic morphology of the Thames represented by a ribbon of glass which snaked through the exhibit's heart. But it was a London greatly transformed from the city of my day. It was dominated by seven or eight huge glass palaces—if you think of the Crystal Palace, vastly extended and several times twinned, you will have something of the effect and these palaces had been joined over by a sort of skin of glass which carapaced the whole of the city. There was nothing of the somberness of the London Dome of 1938, for this immense roof served to catch and amplify the sunlight, it seemed to me, and there were ribbons of electric lamps set about the city—though none of their pin-point bulbs still functioned in my model. There was a forest of immense wind-mills set up over this roof—though the vanes no longer turned—and great platforms were set here and there about the roof, over which hovered toy versions of flying machines. These machines had something of the look of great dragonflies, with huge tiers of sails hovering over them, and gondolas with rows of toy people sitting in them beneath. Yes—people!—women and men, not unlike myself. For this city evidently came from a time notso impossibly removed from my own, that the blunt hand of evolution had not yet remade mankind. Great roads looped off over the countryside, joining this future London to other cities about the country—or so I surmised. These roads were populated by vast mechanisms: unicycles which each bore a score of men, huge produce carts which seemed to have no driver and must thereforebe directed mechanically; and so forth. There were no details to represent the countryside between the roads, however, just a bland, gray surface. The whole design was so huge—it was like one enormous building—that I imagine it could have housed twenty or thirty millions, as opposed to the meager four millions of the London of ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.htmlmy day. Much of the model had its walls and floors cut away, and I was able to see little toy figures representing the populace, set about the many dozens of levels of the city. In the upper levels these inhabitants were dressed in variegated and gaudy designs, with capes of scarlet, hats as spectacular and impractical as a cock's comb, and so forth. Those upper layers seemed to me aplace of great comfort and leisure, being a sort of multiply-leveled mosaic of shops, parks, libraries, sumptuous homes, and the like. But at the base of the city—in its ground floor and basement, so to speak—things were rather different. There, great machines slouched, and ducts, pipes and cables ten or twenty feet across (in the full scale) snaked across the ceilings. Dolls were set here, but they were dressed uniformly in a sort of pale blue canvas, and their personal arrangements were restricted to great communal eating and sleeping halls; and it seemed to me that these lower workers must scarcely get a glimpse, in the general order of things, of the light which bathed the lives of the upper folk. This model was aged and far from perfect—in one corner the pyramid-case had collapsed, and the model there had been smashed up out of recognition, and elsewhere the little dolls and machines had been tumbled over or broken by small disturbances down the ages; and in one place the blue-suited dolls had been set up in little circles and patterns, as if by the playful fingers of the Eloi—but still, the toy city has been a source of continuing fascination to me, for its people and gadgets are close enough to my sort to be intriguing, and I have spent long hours picking out new details about its construction. It seems to me that this vision of the future might represent a sort of intermediate step in the development of the grisly order of things in which I have found myself. Here was a point in time at which the separation of mankind into Upper and Lower remained largely a social artifact, and had not yet begun to influence the evolution of the species itself: The city was a beautiful and magnificent structure, but if it led to this world of Morlock and Eloi—it was a monument to the most colossal folly on the part of Humanity! The Palace of Green Porcelain is set on a high, turfy down, but there are meadows nearby whichare well-watered. I dismantled my Time Machine, and scoured the Palace for materials, and fromthese I devised simple hoes and rakes. I broke the soil in the meadows about my Palace, and planted seeds from the Morlock fruit. I persuaded some of the Eloi to join me in this enterprise. At first they were willing enough—they thought it was some new game—but they lost enthusiasm when I had them keep at their repetitive tasks for long hours; and I had some qualms when I saw their delicate robes stained with soil, and those pretty oval faces running with tears of frustration. But I kept at it, and, when things got too monotonous, I jollied them along with games and dances, and clumsy renditions of"The Land of the Leal," and what I could remember of the "swing" music of 1944—that is particularly popular with them—and gradually they have come about. Growing cycles are not predictable, here in this Age which lacks seasons, and I had to wait no more than a few months before the first canes and plants bore fruit. When I presented these to theABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html I will complete and seal up this account before my departure into the Underworld, for I recognize that my Morlock expedition is not without peril—a trip from which I may not return. But it is an assignment I cannot forestall for much longer; I am already past my fiftieth year of age, and soon I should not be able to face all that climbing in the wells! I will commit myself, here, to attaching as an Appendix to this monograph, on my return, a summary of my subterranean adventures. It is later. I am prepared for my descent. How does the poet say it? "If the doors of perception were cleansed, everything would appear to man as it is, infinite"—something on those lines, at any rate: you will forgive any misquote, for I have no references here... I have seen the Infinite, and the Eternal. I have never lost the vision of those neighboring universes lying all about this sunlit landscape, closer than the leaves of a book;and nor have I forgotten the star-shine of the Optimal History, which I think will live in my soul forever. But none of these grand visions count for half as much, for me, as those fleeting moments of tenderness which have illuminated the darkness of my solitary life. I have enjoyed the loyalty and patience of Nebogipfel, the friendship of Moses, and the human warmth of Hilary Bond; andnone of my achievements or adventures—no visions of time, no infinite star-scapes—will live in my heart as long as the moment, on that first, bright morning after my return here, when I sat by the river and bathed Weena's diamond face, and her chest at last lifted and she coughed, and her pretty eyes fluttered open for the first time, and I saw that she was alive; and, as she recognized me, her lips parted in a smile of gladness. EDITOR'S NOTE: Here the account ends; no further Appendix was found. Copyright © 1995 by Stephen Baxter Cover illustration by Bob Eggleton ISBN: 0-06-105648-0ABC Amber LIT Converter http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
